$ 10,000 Gold ?
SAN FRANCISCO - It has never been easy to have a rational conversation about the value of gold .
Lately , with gold prices up more than 300 % over the last decade , it is harder than ever .
Just last December , fellow economists Martin Feldstein and Nouriel Roubini each penned op @-@ eds bravely questioning bullish market sentiment , sensibly pointing out gold &apos;s risks .
Wouldn &apos;t you know it ?
Since their articles appeared , the price of gold has moved up still further .
Gold prices even hit a record @-@ high $ 1,300 recently .
Last December , many gold bugs were arguing that the price was inevitably headed for $ 2,000 .
Now , emboldened by continuing appreciation , some are suggesting that gold could be headed even higher than that .
One successful gold investor recently explained to me that stock prices languished for a more than a decade before the Dow Jones index crossed the 1,000 mark in the early 1980 &quot; s .
Since then , the index has climbed above 10,000 .
Now that gold has crossed the magic $ 1,000 barrier , why can &apos;t it increase ten @-@ fold , too ?
Admittedly , getting to a much higher price for gold is not quite the leap of imagination that it seems .
After adjusting for inflation , today &apos;s price is nowhere near the all @-@ time high of January 1980 .
Back then , gold hit $ 850 , or well over $ 2,000 in today &apos;s dollars .
But January 1980 was arguably a &quot; freak peak &quot; during a period of heightened geo @-@ political instability .
At $ 1,300 , today &apos;s price is probably more than double very long @-@ term , inflation @-@ adjusted , average gold prices .
So what could justify another huge increase in gold prices from here ?
One answer , of course , is a complete collapse of the US dollar .
With soaring deficits , and a rudderless fiscal policy , one does wonder whether a populist administration might recklessly turn to the printing press .
And if you are really worried about that , gold might indeed be the most reliable hedge .
Sure , some might argue that inflation @-@ indexed bonds offer a better and more direct inflation hedge than gold .
But gold bugs are right to worry about whether the government will honor its commitments under more extreme circumstances .
In fact , as Carmen Reinhart and I discuss in our recent book on the history of financial crises , This Time is Different , cash @-@ strapped governments will often forcibly convert indexed debt to non @-@ indexed debt , precisely so that its value might be inflated away .
Even the United States abrogated indexation clauses in bond contracts during the Great Depression of the 1930 &quot; s . So it can happen anywhere .
Even so , the fact that very high inflation is possible does not make it probable , so one should be cautious in arguing that higher gold prices are being driven by inflation expectations .
Some have argued instead that gold &apos;s long upward march has been partly driven by the development of new financial instruments that make it easier to trade and speculate in gold .
There is probably some slight truth - and also a certain degree of irony - to this argument .
After all , medieval alchemists engaged in what we now consider an absurd search for ways to transform base metals into gold .
Wouldn &apos;t it be paradoxical , then , if financial alchemy could make an ingot of gold worth dramatically more ?
In my view , the most powerful argument to justify today &apos;s high price of gold is the dramatic emergence of Asia , Latin America , and the Middle East into the global economy .
As legions of new consumers gain purchasing power , demand inevitably rises , driving up the price of scarce commodities .
At the same time , emerging @-@ market central banks need to accumulate gold reserves , which they still hold in far lower proportion than do rich @-@ country central banks . With the euro looking less appetizing as a diversification play away from the dollar , gold &apos;s appeal has naturally grown .
So , yes , there are solid fundamentals that arguably support today &apos;s higher gold price , although it is far more debatable whether and to what extent they will continue to support higher prices in the future .
Indeed , another critical fundamental factor that has been sustaining high gold prices might prove far more ephemeral than globalization .
Gold prices are extremely sensitive to global interest @-@ rate movements .
After all , gold pays no interest and even costs something to store .
Today , with interest rates near or at record lows in many countries , it is relatively cheap to speculate in gold instead of investing in bonds .
But if real interest rates rise significantly , as well they might someday , gold prices could plummet .
Most economic research suggests that gold prices are very difficult to predict over the short to medium term , with the odds of gains and losses being roughly in balance .
It is therefore dangerous to extrapolate from short @-@ term trends .
Yes , gold has had a great run , but so , too , did worldwide housing prices until a couple of years ago .
If you are a high @-@ net @-@ worth investor , a sovereign wealth fund , or a central bank , it makes perfect sense to hold a modest proportion of your portfolio in gold as a hedge against extreme events .
But , despite gold &apos;s heightened allure in the wake of an extraordinary run @-@ up in its price , it remains a very risky bet for most of us .
Of course , such considerations might have little influence on prices .
What was true for the alchemists of yore remains true today : gold and reason are often difficult to reconcile .
Is Iraq the Next Afghanistan ?
At the onset of the US @-@ led war in Iraq , two competing views shaped predictions about the outcome .
The first contended that overthrowing Saddam Hussein &apos;s regime would usher in a democratic era in Iraq that would serve as a model and catalyst for democratic change regionally .
Derided by detractors as a new &quot; domino theory , &quot; this view presented intervention in Iraq as similar to America &apos;s role in post @-@ WWII Japan .
Against the optimism of that &quot; Japan scenario , &quot; pessimists argued that a &quot; Somalia scenario &quot; was more likely .
They staked their claim on the tribal , sectarian , and multiethnic nature of Iraq , which , in the absence of dictatorship , would supposedly incite Iraq &apos;s collapse into a &quot; failed state , &quot; with rampant warlordism , ethnic and religious feuds , and harboring of terrorist organizations .
But the main question now is whether Iraq will drift along lines somewhere between these two scenarios , increasingly resembling Afghanistan .
This &quot; Afghan scenario &quot; implies a weak state with nominal power over effectively autonomous fiefdoms that are headed by strongmen who are represented in the central government .
Bad as it sounds , this prospect appears to be a &quot; realistic &quot; compromise between the supposedly utopian vision of a flourishing , unified democracy and the wretchedness of a failed state .
Many of the actions and policies of the Coalition Provisional Authority ( CPA ) , as well as higher @-@ level Bush administration decisions , seem to point to a resigned acceptance that early hopes that Iraq would embrace Western @-@ style democracy were misplaced .
Indeed , such hopes were misplaced .
Iraq &apos;s political culture - and that of most of the Middle East - is incompatible with the basic components of a recognizable Western @-@ style democracy : notions of individual rights and responsibilities are lacking , the concept of a patriarchal state is deeply rooted , and individual cultural identity is rarely tied to the national community .
On the other hand , much circular logic figures in analyses that consider the &quot; traditional &quot; nature of Iraqi society an obstacle to liberal democracy .
For these analyses are hardly neutral , but unwittingly enter an ongoing confrontation .
In Iraq , as elsewhere in the Arab and Muslim worlds , a cultural war is being waged between two paradigms : grand narratives that accept and promote a collectivistic understanding ( nationalism , socialism , Islamism ) , versus an implicit paradigm of individualistic modernity that is locally rooted yet informed by the global experience .
The frontlines of this war are notions of the individual , cultural identity , civil society , and the nation @-@ state .
The religious Islamic component in Iraqi social life should not be underestimated .
But it also should not be equated with the political Islamism that strives to capitalize on it .
Nationalist and leftist political discourses did leave an imprint on the Iraqi value system , but they are not its sole components .
Indeed , the nominal acceptance of grand narratives of &quot; democracy &quot; and &quot; human rights &quot; as common bases for political discourse represents a crucial shift in demarcating the cultural battle .
This cultural debate is not limited to the Arab scene .
There are also vigorous discussions in the West about the applicability of democratic institutions to the Arab context .
Advocates of the notion of &quot; Arab exceptionalism , &quot; which questions the ability of Arab societies to adapt democratic systems are in fact objectively allied with &quot; grand narrative &quot; ideologues - and also with the beneficiaries of the Arab world &apos;s patronage @-@ based political order .
The models used in the West , both in political circles and in academia , for the analysis and interpretation of Arab societies are seriously deficient .
In particular , many analyses nowadays promote an ethnic model , reducing Iraq to an artificial construct that rests atop a fragmented &quot; reality &quot; of separate communities .
Some have even suggested hastening the outcome predicted by this faulty view by dividing Iraq into its &quot; genuine &quot; original components : Sunni , Shi &apos;i , and Kurd .
In fact , Iraqi society is more complex than this .
The reception and adoption of democracy is not a function of sectarian belonging , but a reflection of the multi @-@ dimensional historical , cultural , religious , and political identities of Iraqi individuals .
Given the right circumstances , it is eminently possible to mobilize Iraqi society towards a democratic formulation of its state @-@ to @-@ be .
The fall of Saddam ushers in the right circumstances .
Indeed , the seeming failure of a recognizable democratic core to emerge in Iraq within the first few months of the collapse of Saddam &apos;s dictatorship is due more to idiosyncrasies of the process than to any presumed essential nature of Iraqi society .
Upon Saddam &apos;s fall , a large &quot; middle ground &quot; existed in Iraq that was positively disposed towards democratic discourse and practice .
Policy mistakes and reversals eroded this middle ground , opening a path for ideological Islamism and a reconstituted neo @-@ Ba &apos;athism .
The key mistake was the failure of occupation forces to equip and empower the small group of Iraqi liberal democratic figures to tap into this middle ground . As a result , the space for a liberal democratic outcome receded .
But to treat this setback as a failure would be a self @-@ fulfilling prophecy .
Iraqi democrats must re @-@ assess and develop a clear public strategy .
The CPA , and the world community , must not prejudice the outcome of their efforts by accepting a facile and bogus view of Iraqi society .
Even if such efforts succeed , the road to a full @-@ fledged democratic system in Iraq will still be arduous and expensive .
But instead of succumbing to a &quot; Somalia scenario , &quot; dreaming of a &quot; Japan scenario , &quot; or settling for an &quot; Afghanistan scenario , &quot; Iraq may yet become a &quot; scenario &quot; for successful intervention in the 21 st century .
&quot; Neo @-@ Ottoman &quot; Turkey ?
ANKARA - Nowadays , the international media are obsessed with the question of who &quot; lost &quot; Turkey and what that supposed loss means for Europe and the West .
More alarmingly , some commentators liken Turkey &apos;s neighborhood policy to a revival of Ottoman imperialism .
Recently , a senior Turkish columnist went so far as to quote Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu as saying that &quot; we are indeed neo @-@ Ottoman . &quot;
As someone who was present when Davutoğlu made his presentation to the parliamentary faction of Turkey &apos;s ruling Justice and Development Party ( AKP ) , I can attest to the fact that he did not use such terminology .
In fact , Davutoğlu and all of us in the AKP foreign @-@ policy community never use this term , because it is simply a mispresentation of our position .
Turkey &apos;s neighborhood policy is devised to reintegrate Turkey into its immediate neighborhoods , including the Balkans , the Black Sea , the Caucasus , the Middle East , and the Eastern Mediterranean .
We aim to deepen our political dialogue , increase our trade , and multiply our people @-@ to @-@ people contacts with our neighbors in the form of sports , tourism , and cultural actvities .
When Egon Bahr formulated his Ostpolitik in the 1960 &quot; s , no one asked Will Brandt whether Germany was lost .
God bestowed upon Turkey a geographical position that fundamentally requires for us to engage with East and West , North and South .
This is neither a choice nor a luxury - it is a necessity .
The symbol of the Byzantine and the Selçuk Empires , which occupied roughly the same geography that Turkey does today , was a double @-@ headed eagle looking both east and west .
It should be no wonder that Turkey is also seeking to engage both ends of its territories and feels that its security is best consolidated by minimizing risks together with its neighbors .
So we find the current debate on Turkey &apos;s orientation rather superflous , and in some cases ill @-@ intentioned .
Our neighborhood policy needs support , not criticism .
Turkey has become an invaluable asset in the make @-@ up of our surrounding regions , and is already changing the status quo in favor of more stability and predictability .
Our efforts at normalization with Armenia , for example , are destined to bring change to the entire South Caucasus .
We are doing our part in terms of burden @-@ sharing .
Sensible Europeans understand that .
To be sure , some of our neighbors are difficult .
But no country has the luxury of choosing its neighbors .
Turkey &apos;s neighborhood policy is very realistic , based on genuine interests , not some romantic neo @-@ Ottoman nostagia , as more than a few international commentators have suggested .
True , there is a neo @-@ Ottoman revival in the cultural field , and our citizens are eager to rediscover Ottoman life , culture , and practices .
As Turkey is normalizing domestically , it is also reinterpreting its national historical narrative .
This is a natural byproduct of consolidating our democracy .
However , trying to paint our carefully constructed foreign @-@ policy initiatives with imperialist overtones is not only a stark mispresentation , but also does gross injustice to our well @-@ intentioned efforts to stabilize our region .
In Roman mythology , Janus was the god of gates , doorways , beginnings , and endings .
Turkey today is a Janus @-@ like geography that offers gates and doorways to the East and West .
It offers beginnings and endings to the Caucasus , the Black Sea , the Balkans , and the Mediterranean .
In this capacity , Turkey complements and contributes to a unique transitional passage between otherwise difficult regions , for it signifies centuries @-@ old co @-@ existence and adjustment .
Turkish foreign policy contributes to that coming together and helps its immeditate neighborhoods to connect with one another .
Contrary to recent charges , Turkey &apos;s foreign policymakers are not seeking to revive the Ottoman Empire .
Instead , we seek Turkey &apos;s historic reintegration into its immediate neighborhoods , thereby correcting an anomaly of the Cold War years .
Such re @-@ integration would only benefit the European Union and our other Western , NATO allies .
None of them , therefore , has any reason to express discomfort with Turkey .
\
Why Wait for the Euro ?
Although the EU &apos;s eastward enlargement has not yet happened , the debate is already shifting to ask what will follow : when should the new , predominantly postcommunist , members adopt the euro ?
Assuming that they comply with the Maastricht Treaty &apos;s provisions concerning the EMU - and are not unfairly held to more stringent criteria - the core issue is whether new members would benefit more by waiting or whether they should seek early entry .
At the outset , it must be stressed that , in seeking earlier entry into the EMU a country assumes a more ambitious fiscal and structural program than would be needed if EMU membership is delayed .
Early entry , otherwise , would be an empty gesture .
I believe that early adoption of the euro is not only possible , but preferable to delay .
By early adoption I mean the shortest permissible period of time - two years - following a new member subordinating its monetary policy to the fiscal and monetary constraints of the exchange rate mechanism ( ERM II ) .
Assuming entry into both the EU and ERM II in 2004 , new members should aim to enter the eurozone around 2006 .
Is this realistic ?
Well , most candidate countries have already achieved a high degree of structural convergence with the EU .
Exports to the Union have soared since 1991 , when the collapse of the Soviet @-@ era COMECON trading system forced a radical reorientation of trade - helped by massive foreign investment from the EU - towards Western markets .
Most accession candidates now send more exports to the EU than Greece , Portugal , and Spain did when they entered the EU and EMU .
Progress on disinflation is similarly impressive .
Annual inflation in most candidate countries has fallen to 4 @-@ 5 % - not much higher than in many EU countries , and lower than in The Netherlands last year .
As with structural convergence , EU candidates already outperform Spain , Portugal , and Greece at a comparable time before their EMU debut .
Nor is there much risk of large , future corrective price swings because all but a few prices are completely liberalized .
Theoretical studies suggest that inflation in the accession countries will remain stubbornly higher than the Maastricht Treaty allows .
The culprit in this pessimistic view is the so @-@ called &quot; Balassa @-@ Samuelson &quot; effect : rapid productivity growth in the accession candidates &apos; tradable sectors - export manufacturing , for example - is pushing up real wages throughout their economies , including in non @-@ tradable sectors like services .
This overall rise in real wages in the face of lower productivity growth for the service sector boosts relative prices and keeps inflation above the eurozone average .
The Balassa @-@ Samuelson effect is still evident in Greece , Spain and Portugal .
But as empirical research prepared by the CEC5 National Banks estimates , its contribution to total price growth in the candidate countries is 1 @-@ 2 % .
With the Balassa @-@ Samuelson effect so subdued and limited scope for future corrective inflation , the EMU criterion regarding price stability - of annual inflation within 1.5 % of the average rate for the three best @-@ performing economies in the EU - is within reach .
But is early admission to EMU preferable to postponing membership ?
From the standpoint of current member states , would admitting Hungary , Latvia , Poland , or Slovakia , sooner rather than later , drag down the euro as many fear ?
Fears that extending EMU to new states &quot; too soon &quot; would undermine the euro &apos;s external exchange rate are irrational .
If all candidate countries join the EU at around the same time , they will together account for a mere 6 % of its total GDP .
So any negative impact on the euro from rapid accession to EMU would at worst amount to little more than a rounding error .
Delaying entry into EMU could make sense if a longer wait produced more information .
But a wait of greater length might produce nothing but added noise .
Equally , the transition period is already turbulent , with convergence @-@ driven capital flows driving up exchange rates and complicating monetary policy in several candidate countries , including Poland , the Czech Republic , and Hungary .
Indeed , capital @-@ flow volatility could make short work of the flexible exchange rate on offer under ERM II - a 15 % fluctuation band either side of a central parity .
Some argue that ERM II membership should be viewed as a longer @-@ term proposition - possibly lasting until 2010 - for the benefit of candidates themselves .
The benefit is simple : ERM II permits some exchange rate flexibility , as opposed to the fixed rates implied by adopting the euro .
This would help keep the candidates &apos; economic output high and thus sustain real convergence with average EU income levels .
This is an exceptionally weak argument , and a politically suspect one , too .
As European Central Bank data shows , average per capita GDP in the accession candidates is 44 % of the eurozone level .
The size of the income gap combines with the small growth differentials to imply that the process of real convergence will extend far beyond even the most cautious dates for EU and EMU entry , probably lasting several decades .
More important , long @-@ lasting economic growth does not depend on the type of exchange rate - whether flexible or fixed ( EMU ) - while early accession will speed up crucial reforms .
A few years of limited exchange rate flexibility is a poor substitute for rapid completion of structural reforms .
In almost all candidates , further disinflation and long @-@ term economic growth require fiscal consolidation , more flexible labor markets , and completion of privatization .
Delaying EMU entry risks weakening the incentive to complete these politically costly but necessary reforms .
Any delay in completing reforms will ultimately slow the process of real convergence that EU officials rightly hold dear .
Early adoption , by contrast , would be more conducive to these reforms , and thus to real convergence .
Success here would allow candidate countries to start reaping the benefits of greater price transparency , reduced transaction costs , and a solid macroeconomic framework .
This strategy , not one of deferred entry , promises the most for both the EU &apos;s current and its future members .
1929 or 1989 ?
PARIS - As the economic crisis deepens and widens , the world has been searching for historical analogies to help us understand what has been happening .
At the start of the crisis , many people likened it to 1982 or 1973 , which was reassuring , because both dates refer to classical cyclical downturns .
Today , the mood is much grimmer , with references to 1929 and 1931 beginning to abound , even if some governments continue to behave as if the crisis was more classical than exceptional .
The tendency is either excessive restraint ( Europe ) or a diffusion of the effort ( the United States ) .
Europe is being cautious in the name of avoiding debt and defending the euro , whereas the US has moved on many fronts in order not to waste an ideal opportunity to implement badly needed structural reforms .
For geo @-@ strategists , however , the year that naturally comes to mind , in both politics and economics , is 1989 .
Of course , the fall of the house of Lehman Brothers has nothing to do with the fall of the Berlin Wall .
Indeed , on the surface it seems to be its perfect antithesis : the collapse of a wall symbolizing oppression and artificial divisions versus the collapse of a seemingly indestructible and reassuring institution of financial capitalism .
Yet 2008 @-@ 2009 , like 1989 , may very well correspond to an epochal change , whose unfolding consequences will be felt for decades .
The end of the East @-@ West ideological divide and the end of absolute faith in markets are historical turning points .
And what happens in 2009 may jeopardize some of the positive results of 1989 , including the peaceful reunification of Europe and the triumph of democratic principles over nationalist , if not xenophobic , tendencies .
In 1989 , liberal democracy triumphed over the socialist ideology incarnated and promoted by the Soviet Bloc .
For many of his supporters , it was President Ronald Reagan who , with his deliberate escalation of the arms race , pushed the Soviet economy to the brink , thereby fully demonstrating the superiority of liberal societies and free markets .
Of course , there are obvious differences between 1989 and now .
First , and perhaps above all , the revolutions of 1989 and the subsequent collapse of the Soviet Union put an end to global bipolarity .
By contrast , 2009 is likely to pave the way to a new form of bipolarity , but with China substituting for the Soviet Union .
Second , whereas democracy and market capitalism appeared as clear - if more fragile than expected - winners in 1989 , it is difficult in 2009 , with the spread of the global crisis , to distinguish winners from losers .
Everyone seems to be a loser , even if some are more affected than others .
Yet , history is unfair , and the US , despite its greater responsibility for today &apos;s global crisis , may emerge in better shape than most countries from the morass .
In better shape , but not alone .
As a visiting professor at Harvard and MIT , I am getting a good preview of what the world could look like when the crisis finally passes .
One senses something like the making of an American @-@ Asian dominated universe .
From the incredible media lab at MIT to the mathematics and economics departments at Harvard , Asians - Chinese and Indians , in particular - are everywhere , like the Romans in Athens in the first century BC : full of admiration for those from whom they were learning so much , and whom they would overcome in the coming decades .
But before this new order appears , the world may be faced with spreading disorder , if not outright chaos .
What , for example , will happen to a country as central and vulnerable as Egypt when hundred of thousands of Egyptians working in the Gulf are forced to return to their homeland as a result of the crisis in the oil @-@ producing countries ?
When the rich get less rich , the poor get poorer .
And what about the foreign workers who have reached for the &quot; European dream &quot; and are now faced with potential explosions of xenophobia in Europe &apos;s supposedly open countries ?
The consequences of 1989 ended up being less enduring than many observers , including me , would have assumed .
We can only hope that , in the end , the consequences of 2009 similarly prove to be far less dramatic than we now - intuitively and in our historical reflexes - feel them to be .
The End of 1945
NEW YORK - On May 8 , 1945 , when World War II in Europe officially ended , much of the world lay in ruins .
But if the human capacity for destruction knows few limits , the ability to start over again is just as remarkable .
Perhaps that is why mankind has so far managed to survive .
No doubt , millions of people at the end of the war were too hungry and exhausted to do anything much beyond staying alive .
But , at the same time , a wave of idealism swept across the wreckage , a collective sense of determination to build a more equal , peaceful , and safer world .
That is why the war &apos;s great hero , Winston Churchill , was voted out of office in the summer of 1945 , even before Japan surrendered .
Men and women had not risked their lives simply to return to the old days of class privilege and social deprivation .
They wanted better housing , education , and free health care for all .
Similar demands were heard all over Europe , where the anti @-@ Nazi or anti @-@ fascist resistance was often led by leftists , or indeed Communists , and prewar conservatives were frequently tainted by collaboration with fascist regimes .
There was talk of revolution in countries such as France , Italy , and Greece .
This did not happen , because neither the Western Allies nor the Soviet Union supported it .
Stalin was content to settle for an empire in Eastern Europe .
But even Charles de Gaulle , a resistance leader of the right , had to accept Communists in his first postwar government , and he agreed to nationalize industries and banks .
The swing to the left , to social @-@ democratic welfare states , occurred all over Western Europe .
It was part of the 1945 consensus .
A different kind of revolution was taking place in Europe &apos;s former colonies in Asia , where native peoples had no desire to be ruled once more by Western powers , which had been so ignominiously defeated by Japan .
Vietnamese , Indonesians , Filipinos , Burmese , Indians , and Malays wanted their freedom , too .
These aspirations were often voiced in the United Nations , founded in 1945 .
The UN , like the dream of European unity , was also part of the 1945 consensus .
For a short while , many prominent people - Albert Einstein , for one - believed that only a world government would be able to ensure global peace .
This dream quickly faded when the Cold War divided the world into two hostile blocs . But in some ways the 1945 consensus , in the West , was strengthened by Cold War politics .
Communism , still wrapped in the laurel leaf of anti @-@ fascism , had a wide intellectual and emotional appeal , not only in the so @-@ called Third World , but also in Western Europe .
Social democracy , with its promise of greater equality and opportunities for all , served as an ideological antidote .
Most social democrats were in fact fiercely anti @-@ communist .
Today , 70 years later , much of the 1945 consensus no longer survives .
Few people can muster great enthusiasm for the UN .
The European dream is in crisis .
And the post @-@ war social @-@ democratic welfare state is being eroded more and more every day .
The rot began during the 1980s , under Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher .
Neoliberals attacked the expense of entitlement programs and the vested interests of trade unions .
Citizens , it was thought , had to become more self @-@ reliant ; government welfare programs were making everyone soft and dependent .
In Thatcher &apos;s famous words , there was no such thing as &quot; society , &quot; only families and individuals who ought to be taking care of themselves .
But the 1945 consensus was dealt a much greater blow precisely when we all rejoiced at the collapse of the Soviet Empire , the other great twentieth @-@ century tyranny .
In 1989 , it looked as if the dark legacy of World War II , the enslavement of Eastern Europe , was finally over .
And in many ways , it was .
But much else collapsed with the Soviet model .
Social democracy lost its raison d &quot; être as an antidote to Communism .
All forms of leftist ideology - indeed , everything that smacked of collective idealism - came to be viewed as misguided utopianism that could lead only to the Gulag .
Neoliberalism filled the vacuum , creating vast wealth for some people , but at the expense of the ideal of equality that had emerged from World War II . The extraordinary reception of Thomas Piketty &apos;s Capital in the Twenty @-@ First Century shows how keenly the consequences of the collapse of the left have been felt .
In recent years , other ideologies have also emerged to fill the human need for collective ideals .
The rise of right @-@ wing populism reflects revived yearnings for pure national communities that keep immigrants and minorities out .
And , perversely , American neo @-@ conservatives have transformed the internationalism of the old left by seeking to impose a democratic world order by US military force .
The answer to these alarming developments is not nostalgia .
We cannot simply return to the past .
Too much has changed .
But a new aspiration toward social and economic equality , and international solidarity , is badly needed .
It cannot be the same as the 1945 consensus , but we would do well , on this anniversary , to remember why that consensus was forged in the first place .
2011 : My Space Odyssey
MOSCOW - Most people who know of me think of me as an information @-@ technology expert , someone who probably lives in California and invests in edgy Internet start @-@ ups .
In fact , my formal residence is in New York City , but I am about to spend most of the next five months in Russia , training to be a cosmonaut in Star City , just outside Moscow .
It all came about in a number of ways .
First of all , as a kid , I just assumed that I would go to the moon , without having to do much in particular to make it happen .
I just took it for granted that , by the time I was , say , 40 , space travel would be a common thing .
My father was involved with the United States space program , and we had some moon rocks at home , so I thought it was no big deal .
Then I got distracted for about 40 years .
A few years ago , however , I started paying attention to space again .
A lot of people I knew in the IT industry were doing the same : Elon Musk , a co @-@ founder of PayPal , founded Space @-@ X ; Jeff Bezos of Amazon started a spacecraft company called Blue Origin ; Jeff Greason , a senior manager at Intel , started XCOR Aerospace ( in which I &apos;m an investor ) .
In 2005 , the last year I held my PC Forum conference for IT entrepreneurs , I started a conference called Flight School for entrepreneurs in space and private aviation .
Meanwhile , in about 2005 , I was in South Africa with a small group advising former President Thabo Mbeki and his government about its IT policy .
One of the group was Mark Shuttleworth , founder of Thawte ( sold to VeriSign ) , who had recently come back from a trip to the space station as the second &quot; space tourist . &quot;
One evening , the group sat around a campfire as the sun set , and around 50 African schoolchildren were bussed in .
Altogether , there were about 100 of us , President Mbeki included , around a roaring fire .
Once it was dark , a screen was set up and Mark showed home videos from space .
He gave a fascinating talk about his adventures , complete with clips of him floating around , catching bubbles in his mouth , and so on .
The kids loved it , and I &apos;m sure some of them decided then and there to study math and science .
Eventually , I invested in Space Adventures , the company that organized Shuttleworth &apos;s trip into space .
Later , I went on a tour that they organized to watch the launch of Charles Simonyi , the fifth ( and soon seventh ) space tourist , from Baikonur in Kazakhstan .
( Simonyi wrote the Microsoft Word program , and now has another start @-@ up , Intentional Software , and a foundation , as well as a Web site , CharlesinSpace.org. )
Soon after , I started casually discussing the notion of becoming a backup cosmonaut with the Space Adventures team .
Yes , I would love to actually go , but the trip to space costs $ 35 to $ 40 million , whereas backup training costs &quot; only &quot; $ 3 million .
So I had vague thoughts that I might go into space sometime in 2011 - the year that Google co @-@ founder Sergey Brin is ( very ) tentatively slated to go .
Space Adventures was pushing for 2009 , but I was pretty busy .
Then something happened last spring : my sister Emily discovered that she had cancer and had a double mastectomy .
( She is doing well now and , in fact , just won a mini @-@ marathon . )
A couple of weeks later , I was faced with one of those conflicts : a board meeting here , a conference there , another opportunity at the same time somewhere else . &quot; Aaagh , &quot; I thought , &quot; if only I had a double mastectomy : I could cancel all these things and no one would complain ! &quot;
Good grief ! I realized my priorities were all out of whack . So in some odd way , this sabbatical in Russia is my alternative to a double mastectomy - a positive one , to be sure , but the same kind of reset @-@ button experience .
It is also the answer to another question I hear a lot because of my work on human genetics through 23andMe ( www.23andme.com ) and the Personal Genome Project ( www.personalgenome.org ) : If you learned you had a high chance of developing Alzheimer &apos;s in a few years , what would you do ?
Why , I &apos;d go train to be a cosmonaut , of course ! And why wait to find out I may get Alzheimer &apos;s ? Next month , I will write about what training to go into space actually involves .
A Comeback Strategy for Europe
STOCKHOLM / MADRID - When Pope Francis addressed the European Parliament last November , he compared the European Union to a grandmother - pleasant and rich with experience , but lacking the vitality and energy of the past .
It is high time , Francis argued , that EU leaders shed their dozy image , recognize the strategic challenges that Europe faces , and forge a clear policy for tackling them .
Admittedly , the pope &apos;s characterization was alarmingly accurate in some respects .
But , despite its seeming lassitude , Europe retains significant strengths .
It is a hub of high @-@ level thought and innovation ; it is home to some of the world &apos;s most competitive regions and industries ; and , perhaps most impressive , it has built a community and market encompassing a half @-@ billion people .
But the world is changing : the Asia @-@ Pacific region is increasingly influencing global developments , economic and otherwise .
The Trans @-@ Pacific Partnership - by which the United States and 11 other countries would create a mega @-@ regional free @-@ trade zone - would most likely accelerate this shift ( all the more so if China eventually joins ) .
Though the TPP faces no shortage of hurdles to clear before an agreement is finalized , its potential to augment Asia &apos;s economic power cannot be underestimated .
Europe must work to secure its position in the new world order - beginning by enhancing its own trade and investment ties with the US .
The problem is that , as the TPP negotiations progress , talks on the EU @-@ US Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership ( TTIP ) have become so deeply mired in domestic controversies that the entire project may well be scuttled .
Business leaders on both sides of the Atlantic are convinced that a successful TTIP agreement would bring substantial economic benefits - a perception that many studies reinforce .
Yet trivial issues - for example , the use of chlorinated chicken and settlements of investor disputes - continue to dominate the debate .
The TTIP &apos;s goal is to unleash the power of the transatlantic economy , which remains by far the world &apos;s largest and wealthiest market , accounting for three @-@ quarters of global financial activity and more than half of world trade .
( If the TTIP was opened to other economies - such as Turkey , Mexico , and Canada - the benefits would be even greater . )
Even more compelling than the benefits of achieving an agreement , though , are the potentially catastrophic consequences of failure .
For starters , a breakdown of TTIP talks would give considerable ammunition to those in the United Kingdom who advocate withdrawal from the EU ; conversely , if the TTIP were implemented , the UK would be unwise - and thus unlikely - to leave .
Moreover , the perception that the EU &apos;s internal squabbles had led it to squander a strategic opportunity would probably drive the US to accelerate its disengagement from the continent .
And Russian President Vladimir Putin would invariably regard the EU &apos;s failure as a major opportunity to exert more influence over parts of Europe .
All of this contributes to a starkly fundamental strategic risk : If the TTIP stalls or collapses , while the TPP moves forward and succeeds , the global balance will tip strongly in Asia &apos;s favor - and Europe will have few options , if any , for regaining its economic and geopolitical influence .
When the TTIP was first proposed , Europe seemed to recognize its value .
Indeed , it was the EU that pushed the US , which initially doubted Europe &apos;s commitment , to launch the negotiation process in June 2013 .
The ambition was to complete the negotiations on &quot; one tank of gas . &quot;
No one wanted to endure protracted talks - or the associated political pain .
But EU leaders essentially abandoned the project , seemingly confirming American fears .
Trade negotiators struggled to make headway , while anti @-@ globalization groups seized control of the public discourse , presenting the TTIP as a threat to everything from Europe &apos;s democracy to its health .
This is dangerously inaccurate talk , and EU leaders must prevent it from gaining any more traction by making the strategic case for the agreement .
And they must revive their commitment to conclude the talks successfully in 2015 .
This is not to say that resolving the remaining issues in the TTIP negotiations will be simple .
But establishing a trade agreement , especially one that entails so many regulatory issues , is always difficult , as it must account for the complexity and changeability of modern economies .
The fact is that the challenges inherent in completing the TTIP are no more intractable than those that EU leaders have faced in the last few years of crisis .
When the TTIP negotiations resume next month , EU leaders must push for genuine progress , with the goal of completing a deal by the end of the year .
The good news is that the recent midterm elections in the US might have improved their chances .
President Barack Obama now might get so @-@ called fast @-@ track negotiating authority from Congress .
If he does , Congress would simply approve or reject any negotiated agreement , rather than picking it apart .
The US presidential election season is starting , and other issues in the new year could easily take over the EU agenda .
That is why Europe &apos;s leaders have no time to waste .
They must seize economic opportunity - and avert strategic disaster .
9 / 11 and the New Authoritarianism
Five years after the attacks on the Twin Towers in New York and the Pentagon in Washington , &quot; 9 / 11 &quot; is no longer a mere date .
It has entered the history books as the beginning of something new , a new era perhaps , but in any case a time of change .
The terrorist bombings in Madrid and London and elsewhere will also be remembered ; but it is &quot; 9 / 11 &quot; that has become the catchphrase , almost like &quot; August 1914 . &quot;
But was it really a war that started on September 11 , 2001 ?
Not all are happy about this American notion .
During the heyday of Irish terrorism in the UK , successive British governments went out of their way not to concede to the IRA the notion that a war was being waged . &quot; War &quot; would have meant acceptance of the terrorists as legitimate enemies , in a sense as equals in a bloody contest for which there are accepted rules of engagement .
This is neither a correct description nor a useful terminology for terrorist acts , which are more correctly described as criminal .
By calling them war - and naming an opponent , usually al @-@ Qaeda and its leader , Osama bin Laden - the United States government has justified domestic changes that , before the 9 / 11 attacks , would have been unacceptable in any free country .
Most of these changes were embodied in the so @-@ called &quot; USA Patriot Act . &quot;
Though some of the changes simply involved administrative regulations , the Patriot Act &apos;s overall effect was to erode the great pillars of liberty , such as habeas corpus , the right to recourse to an independent court whenever the state deprives an individual of his freedom .
From an early date , the prison camp at Guantánamo Bay in Cuba became the symbol of something unheard of : the arrest without trial of &quot; illegal combatants &quot; who are deprived of all human rights .
The world now wonders how many more of these non @-@ human humans are there in how many places .
For everyone else , a kind of state of emergency was proclaimed that has allowed state interference in essential civil rights .
Controls at borders have become an ordeal for many , and police persecution now burdens quite a few .
A climate of fear has made life hard for anyone who looks suspicious or acts suspiciously , notably for Muslims .
Such restrictions on freedom did not meet with much public opposition when they were adopted .
On the contrary , by and large it was the critics , not the supporters , of these measures who found themselves in trouble .
In Britain , where Prime Minister Tony Blair supported the US attitude entirely , the government introduced similar measures and even offered a new theory .
Blair was the first to argue that security is the first freedom .
In other words , liberty is not the right of individuals to define their own lives , but the right of the state to restrict individual freedom in the name of a security that only the state can define .
This is the beginning of a new authoritarianism .
The problem exists in all countries affected by the threat of terrorism , though in many it has not become quite as specific .
In most countries of continental Europe , &quot; 9 / 11 &quot; has remained an American date .
There is even a debate - and indeed some evidence - concerning the question of whether involvement in the &quot; war against terrorism &quot; has actually increased the threat of terrorist acts .
Germans certainly use this argument to stay out of the action wherever possible .
This stance , however , has not prevented the spread of something for which a German word is used in other languages , too : Angst .
A diffuse anxiety is gaining ground .
People feel uneasy and worried , especially when traveling .
Any train accident or airplane crash is now at first suspected of being an act of terrorism .
Thus , 9 / 11 has meant , directly or indirectly , a great shock , both psychologically and to our political systems .
While terrorism is fought in the name of democracy , the fight has in fact led to a distinct weakening of democracy , owing to official legislation and popular angst .
One of the worrying features of the 9 / 11 attacks is that it is hard to see their purpose beyond the perpetrators &quot; resentment of the West and its ways .
But the West &apos;s key features , democracy and the rule of law , have taken a far more severe battering at the hands of their defenders than by their attackers .
Two steps , above all , are needed to restore confidence in liberty within the democracies affected by the legacy of 9 / 11 .
First , we must make certain that the relevant legislation to meet the challenge of terrorism is strictly temporary .
Some of today &apos;s restrictions on habeas corpus and civil liberties have sunset clauses restricting their validity ; all such rules should be re @-@ examined by parliaments regularly .
Second , and more importantly , our leaders must seek to calm , rather than exploit , public anxiety .
The terrorists with whom we are currently at &quot; war &quot; cannot win , because their dark vision will never gain broad popular legitimacy .
That is all the more reason for democrats to stand tall in defending our values - first and foremost by acting in accordance with them .
A &quot; Portfolio &quot; Approach to Climate Change
The world has tried with little success to cut carbon emissions under the Kyoto Protocol .
The enormous effort expended to bring the Protocol into force nonetheless indicates how much work will be required to produce the next treaty , due to be agreed in Copenhagen in December 2009 .
Campaigners will push for tough and far @-@ reaching policies , but strong resistance will continue from countries concerned about their economic vitality .
The new negotiations will have one advantage over the earlier efforts , because governments now understand the need for a portfolio of adaptation , mitigation , and research efforts .
New research that my colleagues and I undertook for the Copenhagen Consensus Center in Denmark explores the effectiveness of different responses to this global challenge , but it strongly supports the portfolio approach for several reasons .
First , we now know that adaptation will be essential , because temperatures will rise by another 0.6 ° C by 2100 even if greenhouse gas emissions are eliminated tomorrow .
We also know that the impact of climate change will not be evenly distributed across the globe .
In some areas , modestly warmer temperatures could produce higher crop yields if associated changes in precipitation patterns are not adverse and / or irrigation remains viable .
Even with 0.6 ° C warming , however , Africa and South Asia will experience almost immediate reductions in the viability of many crops and , eventually , increased vulnerability to infectious disease .
These impacts will clearly hit the planet &apos;s worst @-@ off inhabitants hardest : the &quot; bottom billion &quot; who already bear the heaviest burden of disease , poverty , conflict and malnutrition . &amp; # 160 ;
Ensuring that adaptive capacity is expanded and exploited where it is most needed is thus a key challenge .
Long @-@ term development may give countries more capacity to soften the impact of climate change on the environment and citizens &quot; health , but in the meantime the planet &apos;s poorest people will need help from the rich .
Our analysis investigated , for example , the merits of more targeted policies for the near term : purchasing mosquito @-@ resistant bed nets and oral re @-@ hydration malaria therapy for children in the poorest nations affected by climate change .
The goal was to deal aggressively and proactively with some of the marginal health impacts of global warming .
Benefits would appear almost immediately , but would dissipate over time as economies developed .
Even as development improves conditions , however , reducing carbon emissions would become increasingly important over the longer term as the impact of climate change become more severe .
Since the effects of climate change have been observed in many areas around the world , thinking about mitigation makes sense everywhere .
But we found that mitigation
The Copenhagen Consensus study also examined a portfolio option of the sort heralded by the United Nations &quot; Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change .
We allocated $ 50 billion to research into greener technology , so that only $ 750 billion could be absorbed by the economic cost of adaptation and mitigation .
The gap between the cost of carbon @-@ free and carbon @-@ emitting technology fell , and the taxes designed to mitigate emissions became more effective .
As a result , the research and development program essentially paid for itself , and total discounted benefits for the $ 800 billion investment climbed to more than $ 2.1 trillion . &amp; # 160 ;
Ensuring that research and development is part of the world &apos;s climate change response portfolio would make mitigation efforts more efficient and significantly enhance their ability to reduce carbon emissions over the next century .
But these favorable net benefits reflect very conservative assumptions regarding the timing of emissions reductions and when the developing world would &quot; come onboard . &quot;
Optimizing investment in the portfolio over time would , for example , increase the discounted benefits by more than a factor of three .
Expected benefits would increase further if we included the chance that potentially higher climate sensitivities would exacerbate damages , even though doing so would require including similarly plausible lower climate sensitivities , which would push in the opposite direction .
Fighting climate change can be a sound investment , even though neither mitigation nor adaptation alone will be enough to &quot; solve &quot; the problem .
To make a real difference , especially in the near term , the world must combine mitigation and adaptation with increased research and development into carbon @-@ saving and sequestering technology , which in turn requires designing and exploiting market @-@ based incentives .
A &quot; Reset &quot; Button for Europe &apos;s Backyard
STOCKHOLM - One year after the war in Georgia of last August , pushing the &quot; reset &quot; button on diplomatic relations is a popular endeavor nowadays .
President Barack Obama recently journeyed to Moscow in order to &quot; reset &quot; strained United States @-@ Russian ties .
The European Union , though not in need of a &quot; reset &quot; because of strained ties with its eastern neighbors , is involved in a deep strategic reconstruction of those relations .
When the EU launched its new &quot; Eastern Partnership &quot; in May , the purpose was to promote further integration with the Union &apos;s six immediate eastern neighbors - Armenia , Azerbaijan , Belarus , Georgia , Moldova , and Ukraine .
The global financial crisis had made an updated and strengthened policy for the EU &apos;s eastern neighborhood an urgent need .
Equally important was the fact that all the countries concerned expressed an ambition to move closer to the EU .
The Eastern Partnership - originating from a Polish / Swedish initiative - offers to the six countries a substantial upgrading and deepening of relations with the EU in key areas .
In trade and economic relations , it clearly sets out the objective of establishing deep and comprehensive free @-@ trade areas between the EU and the partner countries .
It confirms full visa liberalization as a long @-@ term goal ( with visa facilitation agreements in the meantime ) , promises enhanced cooperation on energy security , diversification , and efficiency , and comes with dedicated programs and projects to help the neighbors in their integration and reform efforts in all these areas .
Sweden &apos;s assumption of the EU Presidency this month should help these efforts .
However , it comes at a time when the Union &apos;s eastern neighborhood faces severe challenges , with the financial and economic crisis hitting many of the partner countries hard .
Ukraine suffers from the sharp drop in global demand and trade , severely undermining its steel industry .
Georgia &apos;s economic success has been largely dependent on direct foreign investment , for which there is hardly any appetite today .
Partner countries that are less integrated into the global market , such as Moldova , have seen the crisis arrive more slowly , but the real effect might be equally as bad , and they are likely to recover more slowly .
The Eastern Partnership does not offer any quick remedies to the crisis .
But it can provide a political framework and institution @-@ building support to improve the deficiencies that made these countries so vulnerable to the crisis : imperfect market economies , weak state institutions , and continued corruption .
The Eastern Partnership &apos;s offer of deep integration with the EU in the areas such as trade and energy carries with it considerable transformational power .
The other type of crisis that most of the partner countries are enduring is political .
In most of these countries , democratic development has not yet reached a point where a change in government is a routine part of political life and can take place without risking the country &apos;s stability .
The Eastern Partnership is based on the profound values of democracy , human rights , and the rule of law .
Political association with the EU , and the process of integration under this Partnership , will promote reforms in these key areas .
The Swedish EU Presidency will concentrate on starting up the concrete work - the nuts and bolts - of the Partnership .
The establishment of &quot; Comprehensive Institution @-@ Building Programs , &quot; designed to support reform of key institutions in each partner country , should take place before the year &apos;s end .
Some flagship initiatives proposed by the European Commission will finally see the light of day as well , and new projects and initiatives are likely to be developed .
Here , Sweden will attach particular importance to energy efficiency programs , which will serve not only the purposes of enhancing energy security and reducing costs , but will also be an important contribution to the fight against climate change .
The Swedish Presidency , together with the European Commission , intends to organize the first meeting of the Eastern Partnership Civil Society Forum this autumn .
We hope to see the start of parliamentary cooperation , as well as exchanges between local and regional authorities of the thirty @-@ three EU and partner countries .
At the end of the year , a meeting of EU foreign ministers and their colleagues from the six partners will assess the progress made so far and give guidance on the way ahead .
The Eastern Partnership is about EU integration , about the six countries moving closer to the EU &apos;s values , legislation , and ways of working , and about the EU being there to support and help this convergence .
In Russia , there is a perception that is sometimes fostered which suggests that the Partnership is directed against it .
But this , of course , is untrue .
On the contrary , Russia , like Turkey , will be welcome to take part in relevant activities within the Partnership &apos;s multilateral dimensions .
The Eastern Partnership is not an answer to all the problems and difficulties that the six partners are facing .
Nevertheless , it does represent a clear commitment by the EU to lend its political and economic support to their transition and reform - a process that should bring prosperity and stability to the whole region .
A &quot; Third Way &quot; for Confronting Russia
PARIS - &quot; Let &apos;s engage Russia if we can , but contain it if we must . &quot; These two alternatives already defined Western strategy toward Russia in the mid @-@ 1990 &quot; s .
Since then , Russia may have changed dramatically , but not our questions about it . What do you do when your big neighbor widens the gap that exists between its culture , which is European , and its political system , which is becoming increasingly &quot; Asian , &quot; at least in the bad old sense of &quot; Oriental despotism &quot; ?
Should the best answer to the return of Russia &apos;s imperial ambitions be a modern version of a Holy Alliance of stability designed to contain the world &apos;s new maverick ?
Or is a latter @-@ day Yalta Conference , aimed at redrawing the political boundaries of Europe , necessary ?
Could the answer be a bit of both ?
If Russia is becoming what revolutionary France was under Napoleon , or reverting to Soviet form - shorn of a totalitarian ideology but with an appetite for conquest and re @-@ conquest - what is needed is not the &quot; league of democracies &quot; advocated by some conservatives in America .
What is needed , instead , is a &quot; stability league &quot; that includes prominent actors like China , India , and other countries that are more interested in economic growth than in &quot; rocking the boat &quot; of the international system .
Such a strategy implies , first of all , a solid partnership with China , not because it is evolving in the direction of democracy , but because it is a status @-@ quo power .
Such a strategy could lead to the opening of negotiations with Iran , and of course to a further closing of ranks within NATO .
The message to the Kremlin here would be crystal clear .
&quot; Do not fool yourself . Nationalism and imperialism will lead you nowhere ; you cannot expand geographically without serious costs to your economic growth and your personal enrichment .
Europe may be weak and divided , America may no longer be what it was , but with your falling population and the sad state of your economy beyond oil and gas , you simply are not equipped to be in the league of great global powers .
China is ; you are not . &quot;
But the containment argument fails , because the Kremlin can still make mischief around the world by acting with Syria or Venezuela in an irresponsible manner .
More importantly , rallying the world solely against Russia would mean taking Russia &apos;s great power pretensions too seriously .
For example , many Asians believe that Russia is a problem for Europe , but no longer for the world .
At the Cold War &apos;s end , Japan remained obsessed with Russia as the heir to the Soviet Union .
Today , the Japanese are so concerned with China that they have little time for fears about Russia .
The other alternative to a rebirth of &quot; containment &quot; would consist in accepting the Russian argument , or more precisely , Russian &quot; emotions . &quot;
It would mean saying , in effect , &quot; We have unnecessarily humiliated you over the last ten years .
From NATO enlargement to the grant of independence to Kosovo , we have deliberately ignored your sensitivities and your interests .
Let &apos;s sit down together like Churchill , Roosevelt , and Stalin at Yalta and redesign a twenty @-@ first @-@ century map of Europe .
What do you want back ?
What do we keep ? &quot;
This approach might recognize Russia &apos;s droit de regard on the future evolution of the Caucasus .
Indeed , while talking tough under the guidance of Nicolas Sarkozy &apos;s France , which currently holds the EU presidency , Europe has de facto resigned itself to Georgia &apos;s dismemberment .
Russian troops are to remain in South Ossetia and Abkhazia .
The West is not about to declare war on Russia for the sake of a Georgia whose credibility has been greatly eroded by its president &apos;s irresponsible behavior .
As for Ukraine , it may one day become part of the European Union , but its future is not in NATO .
Yet , between all @-@ out containment , which is very unlikely and not necessarily desirable or realistic , and accommodation which borders on appeasement , which would be dangerous for Europe &apos;s future , a third way , based on a few firm principles , must be found .
These principles are clear .
First , Ukraine &apos;s territorial integrity is not negotiable .
This has been said many times , but repetition does not diminish its importance .
Russia without Ukraine is a manageable nation @-@ state ; Russia with Ukraine is an unmanageable empire .
Second , even if the West condemns Georgia &apos;s irresponsibility and incorporates into its policy Russia &apos;s sensitivities on the complex historical feelings related to its ex @-@ imperial territories , the Kremlin &apos;s shameless brutality is unacceptable .
After all , this is Europe more than six decades after World War II , and nearly 20 years after the collapse of the Soviet Union .
The use of force to settle scores and impose one nation &apos;s will upon another cannot be accepted passively .
In the short term , time may be on Russia &apos;s side .
In the long run - economically , demographically , politically , strategically - time is on &quot; our &quot; side , if we stick to our values and our principles .
A \
The drubbing that many governments suffered in the recent elections to the European Union Parliament places them in a difficult position as they maneuver ahead of this week &apos;s EU Summit .
Only an incurable optimist can hope that the summit will bring glory to any of them .
The summit has two purposes : to finalize the text of a new EU Constitution , and to appoint the next President of the Commission .
These negotiations will be much harder in view of the spectacular repudiation of a number of key governments at the ballot box , together with the potent rise of protest and Euroskeptic parties in several member states .
The problem for Europe &apos;s leaders is that their own repudiation by voters does not necessarily carry the same message as the rise of the Euroskeptic parties .
The record slump in the vote for Gerhard Schröder &apos;s governing Social Democrats in Germany has little to do with his policy towards Europe , but a great deal to do with the perceived failure of his economic policies - and the persistence of low growth and high unemployment - at home .
Despite nationalist parties &apos; success in France , the same is true of the setback for President Jacques Chirac &apos;s centre @-@ right party .
In Britain , by contrast , where the economy is strong and unemployment low , the main factor behind the collapse in the vote for the governing Labor Party has been anger with Tony Blair &apos;s determination to go to war in Iraq beside George Bush .
Nevertheless , the rise of Euroskeptic parties , in a number of countries including Britain , France , Belgium , Poland , and the Czech Republic , has worrying implications for a summit meeting whose purpose is to take European integration a small but unmistakable step forward .
In Britain , in particular , the spectacular surge of the UK Independence Party ( UKIP ) can only strengthen the government &apos;s long @-@ standing latent Euroskepticism .
The proposed constitution will contain a Charter of Fundamental Rights , which is intended to enhance the political and moral legitimacy of the EU .
But will it really enhance the rights of EU citizens ?
Or , as the British government insists , will it merely be a declaratory document that only describes rights already existing under national legislation in the member states .
The draft constitution would enhance the policymaking powers of the Union , with a bit more majority voting in the Council of Ministers , and a stronger role for the European Parliament .
But , despite Tony Blair &apos;s one @-@ time declaration that he would take Britain &quot; into the heart of Europe , &quot; he remains viscerally opposed to the prospect of further integration , and he will resist any new encroachment on British sovereignty in his &quot; red line &quot; areas of tax , foreign policy , and EU budget finance .
Blair &apos;s Euroskepticism is understandable insofar as it chimes with the British mood .
Opinion polls consistently show that British voters are unenthusiastic about the EU , and the picture is confirmed by the latest Eurobarometer poll , conducted throughout the Union for the Commission - but before the recent enlargement from 15 to 25 member states .
One question always asked in this poll is whether voters tend to trust or mistrust different institutions , such as national parliaments , national governments , and the European Union .
Overall , the general level of trust in the European Union is not high : only 41 % of voters tend to trust the EU , whereas 42 % tend not to trust it .
But in Britain , the figures are dramatically different : only 19 % trust the EU , while 55 % distrust it .
By contrast , the European Parliament has a better reputation than the EU as a whole : the average EU @-@ wide level of trust in the European Parliament is 54 % , whereas in Britain it is 30 % .
Across the EU , 48 % think EU membership is a good thing ; in Britain , this figure falls to 29 % .
On virtually every question , British voters are less enthusiastic about the EU than voters in any other country .
One might think that Britons &apos; aversion to the EU would be reflected in support for , and pride in , their national institutions .
Not so .
British trust in the European Parliament may stand at only 30 % ; but trust in the Westminster Parliament is much lower , at only 19 % - the lowest figure in the EU .
Trust in the national government is a bit higher , but still only 25 % , while trust in national political parties is only 10 % .
Both figures are , again , the lowest in the EU .
Voters in other states have more confidence in EU institutions , but their opinion of their own institutions is also low .
In France , 57 % trust the European Parliament , but only 29 % trust the French parliament ; while the corresponding figures for Germany are 51 % and 23 % .
But the puzzle in the poll is that , even if Europe &apos;s voters are unenthusiastic about the EU and its existing institutions as they stand now , 65 % of them would support a common foreign policy for Europe , and 72 % would support a common defense and security policy ; even in Britain , there is 52 % support for the idea of a common defense policy .
This may be a reaction to the American @-@ led war in Iraq ; but Tony Blair will exclude it precisely for that reason , and a common European defense policy without Britain makes little sense .
The predicament for Europe &apos;s leaders at this week &apos;s summit is that they stand at the cusp of an unstable process of European integration .
With the accession of 10 new members , the EU must become more integrated if it is to function .
But it is not at all clear that those governments that would normally support more integration can sell it to their disillusioned electorates .
Tony Blair has promised a referendum on the new EU constitution , which he cannot possibly win .
The central question will be whether Europe &apos;s &quot; leaders &quot; deliberately play for failure , in the hope that the problem will go away .
A Bad Deal for America &apos;s Future
WASHINGTON , DC - The painfully negotiated US budget legislation that President Barack Obama signed on August 2 combines an increase in America &apos;s government debt ceiling with reductions in federal spending , thus averting the prospect of the first default in the 224 @-@ year history of the United States .
But the agreement has three major flaws .
Two of them offset each other , but the third threatens what America needs most in the coming years : economic growth .
The first flaw is that the spending reductions are badly timed : coming as they do when the US economy is weak , they risk triggering another recession .
The measure &apos;s second shortcoming , however , is that the spending reductions that it mandates are modest .
While the legislation does too little to address America &apos;s problem of chronic and rising budget deficits , the damage that it inflicts on the economy in the short term is likely to be limited .
The third and most damaging flaw , however , is that the spending cuts come in the wrong places .
Because the Democrats in Congress have an almost religious commitment to preserving , intact , America &apos;s principal welfare programs for senior citizens , Social Security and Medicare , the legislation does not touch either of them .
These programs &quot; costs will rise sharply as the 78 @-@ million @-@ strong baby @-@ boom generation - those born between 1946 and 1964 - retires and collects benefits , accounting for the largest increase in government spending and prospective deficits in the years ahead .
And , because the Republicans in Congress have an equally strong allergy to raising any taxes , any time , under any circumstances , the bill does not rely at all on tax increases - not even for the wealthiest Americans - for the deficit reduction that it provides .
All of the spending cuts come from the &quot; discretionary &quot; part of the federal budget , which excludes Social Security , Medicare , the Medicaid program for the poor , and interest on the national debt .
That leaves only about one @-@ third of total federal spending from which to cut , and much of that goes to the defense budget , which Republicans will attempt to protect in the future .
So the structure established by the August 2 law concentrates deficit reduction on the &quot; discretionary non @-@ defense &quot; part of the federal budget , which is only about 10 % of it .
This is too small a pool of money from which to achieve deficit reduction on the scale that the US will need in the years ahead .
Worse yet , discretionary non @-@ defense spending includes programs that are indispensable for economic growth - and economic growth is indispensable for America &apos;s future prosperity and global standing .
Growth is , in the first place , the best way to reduce the country &apos;s budget deficits .
The higher the growth rate , the more revenues the government will collect without raising tax rates ; and higher revenues enable smaller deficits .
Moreover , economic growth is necessary to keep the promise - enormously important to individual Americans - that each generation will have the opportunity to become more prosperous than the preceding one , the popular term for which is &quot; the American dream . &quot;
Just as important for non @-@ Americans , only robust economic growth can ensure that the US sustains its expansive role in the world , which supports the global economy and contributes to stability in Europe , East Asia , and the Middle East .
As Thomas L. Friedman and I explain in our forthcoming book That Used To Be Us : How America Fell Behind in the World It Invented and How We Can Come Back , a crucial factor in America &apos;s economic success has been an ongoing public @-@ private partnership , which dates back to the founding of the country , that is imperiled by the pattern of budget cuts established by the August 2 legislation .
That partnership has five components : wider opportunities for education in order to produce a workforce with cutting @-@ edge skills ; investment in infrastructure - roads , power plants , and ports - that supports commerce ; funds for research and development to expand the frontiers of knowledge in ways that generate new products ; an immigration policy that attracts and retains talented people from beyond America &apos;s borders ; and business regulations strong enough to prevent disasters such as the near @-@ meltdown of the financial system in 2008 but not so stringent as to stifle the risk @-@ taking and innovation that produce growth .
The first three elements of the American formula for growth cost money , and that money is included in the &quot; discretionary non @-@ defense &quot; part of the federal budget now targeted by the debt @-@ ceiling legislation .
Cutting these programs will lower American economic growth in the long term , with negative consequences both at home and abroad .
Reducing the deficit by cutting funds for education , infrastructure , and research and development is akin to trying to lose weight by cutting off three fingers .
Most of the weight will remain , and one &apos;s life prospects will have worsened significantly .
Reducing deficits in order to raise the debt ceiling was the right thing to do , but the August 2 law does it in the wrong way .
Unless more deficit reduction , which is inevitable , comes from curbing entitlement benefits and increasing revenues , and less from programs vital for economic growth , the result will be a poorer , weaker US - and a more uncertain , if not unstable , world .
A Balanced EU Constitution
EU Commission President Romano Prodi has proposed a scheme to strengthen the Union &apos;s executive .
Britain , France , and Spain are working on an opposing plan that will consolidate EU executive powers among the biggest EU states .
What &apos;s the ordinary European to think ?
Europe &apos;s citizens scarcely grasp the issues at the heart of the European Constitutional Convention in Brussels .
Mountains of detail obscure problems ; sterile , misleading national discussions that pit &quot; Euroskeptics &quot; against &quot; Europhiles &quot; muster sound and fury but clarify nothing .
So complicated do many issues seem that some newspapers and broadcasters have abandoned reporting about the Convention .
EU citizens can secure a clearer understanding of what the Convention should achieve by asking this question : how should governmental functions be divided between the EU and its member nations ?
To answer this , we need to grasp government &apos;s true purpose .
Government should provide citizens with public goods : collective defense , legislation and regulation , enforcement of the rule of law .
These can be provided at different levels : local , regional , national , or supranational government , i.e. , the EU .
But what is the right level ?
In some areas , decentralization works because it recognizes diverse local or national communities .
However , local decisions often have repercussions on citizens in other communities .
So certain services should be allocated to a broader geographic unit because they have externalities ( that is , interdependence of effects ) .
Europe &apos;s allocation of governmental powers should be based on the principle that institutions carry out only those activities with clear economies of scale and where differences of opinion are modest .
The lower a government activity &apos;s externalities , the more it should be localized .
Low externalities imply limited benefits to be gained from centralization ; deep differences among citizens imply that the costs of harmonization would be too high .
The euro , for example , delivers clear advantages of scale by favoring international commerce and avoiding negative externalities .
No longer can the lira be devalued to favor Italian exports to the detriment of the French , followed by a French reaction , etc .
Although the imperfectly synchronized economic cycles of EU members causes friction over monetary and exchange rate policy , the euro &apos;s benefits outweigh the costs of diversity .
In educational policy , however , to impose the same system on all members would not create economies of scale .
Cultural differences are too strong to win voluntary compliance . It would be absurd to delegate education and culture to a supranational level .
Of the areas of public policy with high economies of scale or externalities , two stand out : the common market and competition ; and foreign policy and defense .
The former covers antitrust , trade , and the common currency .
Some think that fiscal policies - from the structure of taxation to welfare , to budget balances - should also be harmonized .
But national preferences are diverse , and if mechanically imposed , fiscal centralization might incite resistance .
Nor do centralized fiscal policies have any real raison d &apos;être from a constitutional point of view .
The US Constitution , for example , does not prescribe balanced budgets for the states .
Only in exceptional circumstances is fiscal harmonization justified : prohibitions , say , on fiscal incentives aimed at limiting competition , impeding commerce , or restricting the movement of capital .
Foreign policy and defense belong , par excellence , at government &apos;s apex .
There are clear externalities and economies of scale .
It would be absurd if New York pursued a different foreign policy than Texas .
Much the same is true in Europe .
The addition of new EU members implies that more internal differences will occur , which means that fewer centralized policies are justified .
These considerations suggest a series of principles for the Convention to consider :
1 . The EU Constitution should establish unequivocally which prerogatives belong to Europe and which to member countries .
When in doubt , the principle of subsidiarity suggests that national states remain supreme ;
2 . European @-@ level institutions should guarantee the functioning of markets , including competition , commercial , and monetary policies ;
3 . Fiscal policy should remain largely decentralized , save for a few exceptions ;
4 . Foreign policy and defense are areas of federal competence , to be delegated to Europe at a proper time ;
5 . The creation of new areas of federal competence should be accompanied by decision @-@ making mechanisms found in genuinely representative democracies .
So &quot; No centralization without representation . &quot;
Today &apos;s EU diverges enormously from these principles ( see table ) , as is demonstrated by the fact that agriculture , which represents 2 % of European GDP , accounts for 40 % of EU expenditures .
Activities of EU Institutions ( percent of total )
Source of Table : &quot; What Does the European Union do ? &quot;
A. Alesina , I. Angeloni &amp; amp ; L.Schuknecht , CEPR Discussion Paper no .
3115 .
Europe faces an historic opportunity .
America &apos;s founding fathers wrote a Constitution that has lasted over 200 years .
Members of the European Convention obviously face a far more complex and diverse society @-@ and thus a more daunting constitutional challenge .
But they can succeed by displaying comparable wisdom and foresight .
A Balanced Look at Sino @-@ American Imbalances
BEIJING - Before July 2007 , most economists agreed that global imbalances were the most important threat to global growth .
It was argued that the United States &quot; rising net foreign debt @-@ to @-@ GDP ratio - the result of chronic current @-@ account deficits - would put a sharp brake on capital inflows , in turn weakening the dollar , driving up interest rates , and plunging the US economy into crisis .
But this scenario failed to materialize .
Instead , the crisis stemmed from the US sub @-@ prime debacle , which quickly dragged the global economy into its deepest recession since the 1930 &quot; s .
Most economists failed to foresee the economic dynamics that actually led to the crisis , because they failed to pay enough attention to the rapid increase in US total debt .
Instead , they focused exclusively on US foreign debt , ignoring household debt ( mortgage and consumer debt ) , public debt , business debt , and financial debt .
In particular , they should have paid greater attention to the sustainability of US mortgage and consumer debt .
In 2007 , the mortgage and consumer debt @-@ to @-@ GDP ratio was more than 90 % , compared to 24 % for net foreign debt .
Of course , the various components of debt differ considerably in their character and sources of financing - and thus in their sustainability .
But all parts of a country &apos;s total debt and how it is financed are interconnected .
This means two things .
First , funds from different sources of finance are interchangeable to a certain degree : deficiency of funds for one component of total debt can be supplemented by surplus funds originally aimed at financing other components .
Second , troubles in any single component of total debt will have an impact on all the other components .
After the subprime crisis erupted , mortgage and consumer debt was paid down by households either with their savings or by default .
The fall in US total debt , and the narrowing of the financing gap between total debt and domestic funds , led to a significant improvement in the US current @-@ account deficit in 2008 @-@ 2009 , disproving US Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke &apos;s claim that the deficit was caused by a global &quot; saving glut . &quot;
Indeed , America &apos;s current @-@ account position strengthened despite the dollar &apos;s appreciation in the face of safe @-@ haven demand .
Unfortunately , as a result of the private @-@ sector deleveraging and an increase in household savings , the US economy , driven by debt and consumption , slid into recession .
To offset the negative impact of private @-@ sector deleveraging on growth , the US government has maintained expansionary fiscal and monetary policies .
Now , with household debt sustained on a knife @-@ edge after feverish government intervention , the fiscal position has deteriorated dramatically and the current @-@ account balance has worsened again .
Sustainability of public debt has replaced sustainability of private debt as the biggest threat to financial stability , and the focus of debate about the US current account has shifted from the sustainability of foreign debt to the impact of reducing the external deficit on growth and employment .
The dilemma facing US policymakers is how to stimulate growth while lowering the level of total debt .
The most important way to achieve both objectives is to increase exports by strengthening US competitiveness .
But where will increased competitiveness come from ?
Devaluation of the dollar could improve US competitiveness in the short run , but it is not a solution .
Because rapid fiscal deterioration now has investors worrying about capital losses on US government securities , devaluation would make foreigners more hesitant to finance America &apos;s budget deficit .
If foreign financing is not forthcoming , yields on US government debt will rise and the US economy will fall back into recession .
In the long run , America &apos;s growth pattern must undergo a structural shift from reliance on debt and consumption one based on Americans vaunted capacity for creativity and innovation .
Only then will America improve its competitiveness enough to allow the government to reduce both private and public debt to sustainable levels while maintaining a respectable growth rate .
But neither improved competitiveness , nor reduction of total debt , can be achieved overnight .
In the short run , the US current @-@ account deficit will remain , regardless of which country runs bilateral surpluses .
Thus , China &apos;s continued reinvestment of its current @-@ account surplus in US government securities is of utmost important for US growth and financial stability .
Given that America benefits mightily from China &apos;s purchases of US government securities , it is difficult to understand why the US government and Congress have been complaining so much about the bilateral current @-@ account deficit .
It is also difficult to grasp why China is so reluctant to reduce its bilateral surplus , given meager returns on its massive holdings of US government securities and a sustained risk of large capital losses in the future .
The good news is that , following President Hu Jintao &apos;s recent visit to Washington , both America and China have been taking positive steps to resolve their differences over the bilateral current @-@ account balance .
That augurs well for a more rational and constructive Sino @-@ American dialogue on global imbalances , which would certainly benefit the global economy .
A Banking Union Baby Step
BRUSSELS - At the beginning of the financial crisis , it was said that banks were , in Charles Goodhart &apos;s crisp phrase , &quot; international in life , but national in death . &quot;
At the time ( 2008 @-@ 2009 ) , large international banks had to be rescued by their home countries &quot; governments when they ran into trouble .
But the problem now in Europe is the opposite : banks are &quot; national in life , but European in death . &quot;
In Spain , for example , local savings banks ( cajas ) financed an outsize real @-@ estate boom .
As the boom turned to bust , the losses threatened to overwhelm the capacity of the Spanish state , and the problem became European , because it threatened the very survival of the euro .
The Spanish case is symptomatic of a larger problem .
National supervisors always tend to minimize problems at home .
Their instinct ( and their bureaucratic interest ) is to defend their countries &quot; &quot; national champion &quot; bank ( s ) abroad .
But their resistance to recognizing problems at home runs even deeper .
Until recently , the Spanish authorities maintained that the problems in their country &apos;s real @-@ estate sector were temporary .
To acknowledge the truth would have meant admitting that for years they had overlooked the build @-@ up of an unsustainable construction boom that now threatens to bankrupt the entire country .
In the case of Ireland , the situation was initially not much different .
When problems started to surface , the finance minister at the time initially claimed that the country would carry out &quot; the cheapest bank rescue ever . &quot;
Given national supervisors &quot; predictable tendency not to recognize problems at home , it seemed natural that the cost of cleaning up insolvent banks should also be borne at the national level .
It thus seemed to make sense that even in the eurozone , banking supervision remained largely national .
The recently created European Banking Authority has only limited powers over national supervisors , whose daily work is guided mainly by national considerations .
But reality has shown that this approach is not tenable .
Problems might originate at the national level , but , owing to monetary union , they quickly threaten the stability of the entire eurozone banking system .
At their June summit , Europe &apos;s leaders finally recognized the need to rectify this situation , transferring responsibility for banking supervision in the eurozone to the European Central Bank .
Given that financial integration is particularly strong within the monetary union , putting the ECB in charge was an obvious choice .
Moreover , the ECB already bears de facto responsibility for the stability of the eurozone &apos;s banking system .
But , until now , it had to lend massive amounts to banks without being able to judge their soundness , because all of that information was in the hands of national authorities who guarded it jealously and typically denied problems until it was too late .
Putting the ECB in charge should also help to stop the creeping disintegration process , which is not publicly visible , but is very real nonetheless .
Just ask any of the large international banking groups headquartered in financially stressed eurozone countries .
Consider the case of a bank headquartered in Italy , but with an important subsidiary in Germany .
The German operations naturally generate a surplus of funds ( given that savings in Germany far exceed investment on average ) .
The parent bank would like to use these funds to reinforce the group &apos;s liquidity .
But the German supervisory authorities consider Italy at risk and thus oppose any transfer of funds there .
The supervisor of the home country ( Italy ) has the opposite interest .
It would like to see the &quot; internal capital market &quot; operate as much as possible .
Here , too , it makes sense to have the ECB in charge as a neutral arbiter with respect to these opposing interests .
But , while putting the ECB in charge of banking supervision solves one problem , it creates another : can national authorities still be held responsible for saving banks that they no longer supervise ?
Economic ( and political ) logic requires that the eurozone will soon also need a common bank rescue fund .
Officially , this has not yet been acknowledged .
But that is often the way that European integration proceeds : an incomplete step in one area later requires further steps in related areas .
This incremental approach has worked well in the past ; indeed , today &apos;s European Union resulted from it .
But a financial crisis does not give policymakers the time that they once had to explain to voters why one step required another .
They will have to walk much more quickly to save the euro .
A Berlin Consensus ?
HONG KONG - A recent trip to Berlin brought back memories of an earlier visit in the summer of 1967 , when I was a poor student who marveled at the Wall that would divide and devastate an entire society for another two decades .
Berlin today is vibrant and rejuvenated , rebuilt by the German peoples &apos; hard work and sacrifice to unify the country , and an apt setting for the conference of the Institute for New Economic Thinking ( INET ) , which I was there to attend .
The conference &apos;s theme was &quot; Paradigm Lost , &quot; with more than 300 economists , political scientists , systems analysts , and ecologists gathering to rethink economic and political theory for the challenges and uncertainty posed by growing inequality , rising unemployment , global financial disarray , and climate change .
Almost everyone agreed that the old paradigm of neoclassical economics was broken , but there was no agreement on what can replace it .
Nobel laureate Amartya Sen attributed the European crisis to four failures - political , economic , social , and intellectual .
The global financial crisis , which began in 2007 as a crisis of US subprime lending and has broadened into a European sovereign @-@ debt ( and banking ) crisis , has raised questions that we cannot answer , owing to over @-@ specialization and fragmentation of knowledge .
And yet there is no denying that the world has become too intricate for any simple , overarching theory to explain complex economic , technological , demographic , and environmental shifts .
In particular , the rise of emerging markets has challenged traditional Western deductive and inductive logic .
Deductive inference enables us to predict effects if we know the principles ( the rule ) and the cause .
By inductive reasoning , if we know the cause and effects , we can infer the principles .
Eastern thinking , by contrast , has been abductive , moving from pragmatism to guessing the next steps .
Abductive inference is pragmatic , looking only at outcomes , guessing at the rule , and identifying the cause .
Like history , social @-@ scientific theory is written by the victors and shaped by the context and challenges of its time .
Free @-@ market thinking evolved from Anglo @-@ Saxon theorists ( many from Scotland ) , who migrated and colonized territories , allowing fortunate individuals to assume that there were no limits to consumption .
European continental thinking , responding to urbanization and the need for social order , emphasized institutional analysis of political economy .
Thus , the emergence of neoclassical economics in the nineteenth century was very much influenced by Newtonian and Cartesian physics , moving from qualitative analysis to quantifying human behavior by assuming rational behavior and excluding uncertainty .
This &quot; predetermined equilibrium &quot; thinking - reflected in the view that markets always self @-@ correct - led to policy paralysis until the Great Depression , when John Maynard Keynes &apos;s argument for government intervention to address unemployment and output gaps gained traction .
By the 1970 &quot; s , the neoclassical general @-@ equilibrium school captured Keynesian economics through real @-@ sector models that assumed that &quot; finance is a veil , &quot; thereby becoming blind to financial markets &quot; destabilizing effects .
Economists like Hyman Minsky , who tried to correct this , were largely ignored as Milton Friedman and others led the profession &apos;s push for free markets and minimal government intervention .
But then technology , demographics , and globalization brought dramatic new challenges that the neoclassical approach could not foresee .
Even as the world &apos;s advanced countries over @-@ consumed through leveraging from derivative finance , four billion of the world &apos;s seven billion people began moving to middle @-@ income status , making huge demands on global resources and raising the issue of ecological sustainability .
New thinking is required to manage these massive and systemic changes , as well as the integration of giants like China and India into the modern world .
A change of mindset is needed not just in the West , but also in the East .
In 1987 , the historian Ray Huang explained it for China :
&quot; As the world enters the modern era , most countries under internal and external pressure need to reconstruct themselves by substituting the mode of governance rooted in agrarian experience with a new set of rules based on commerce .... This is easier said than done .
The renewal process could affect the top and bottom layers , and inevitably it is necessary to recondition the institutional links between them .
Comprehensive destruction is often the order ; and it may take decades to bring the work to completion . &quot;
Using this macro @-@ historical framework , we can see Japanese deflation , European debt , and even the Arab Spring as phases of systemic changes within complex structures that are interacting with one another in a new , multipolar global system .
We are witnessing simultaneous global convergence ( the narrowing of income , wealth , and knowledge gaps between countries ) and local divergence ( widening income , wealth , and knowledge gaps within countries ) .
Adaptive systems struggle with order and creativity as they evolve .
As the philosopher Bertrand Russell presciently put it : &quot; Security and justice require centralized governmental control , which must extend to the creation of a world government if it is to be effective .
Progress , on the contrary , requires the utmost scope for personal initiative that is compatible with social order . &quot;
A new wave of what the economist Joseph Schumpeter famously called &quot; creative destruction &quot; is under way : even as central banks struggle to maintain stability by flooding markets with liquidity , credit to business and households is shrinking .
We live in an age of simultaneous fear of inflation and deflation ; of unprecedented prosperity amid growing inequality ; and of technological advancement and resource depletion .
Meanwhile , existing political systems promise good jobs , sound governance , a sustainable environment , and social harmony without sacrifice - a paradise of self @-@ interested free riders that can be sustained only by sacrificing the natural environment and the welfare of future generations .
We cannot postpone the pain of adjustment forever by printing money .
Sustainability can be achieved only when the haves become willing to sacrifice for the have @-@ nots .
The Washington Consensus of free @-@ market reforms for developing countries ended more than two decades ago .
The INET conference in Berlin showed the need for a new one - a consensus that supports sacrifice in the interest of unity .
Europe could use it .
A Better and Safer Europe
To many , myself included , NATO &apos;s enlargement to take in , among others , the Baltic states of Estonia , Latvia , and Lithuania -- which were once Soviet republics -- is an impossible dream come true .
When the idea was first floated some 10 years ago , expansion into the Baltics was taken seriously by few people .
Until recently , Russia &apos;s robust opposition to the idea posed a serious obstacle , because it sharpened the impression that Russia regarded its so @-@ called &quot; near abroad &quot; as a zone of special interest and influence .
NATO &apos;s enlargement makes it crystal clear that no country in the new Europe can be regarded as part of another country &apos;s &quot; zone . &quot;
It assures the three small Baltic countries that the nightmare of occupation by big neighbors ( Hitler &apos;s Reich and Stalin &apos;s USSR ) , which they endured for half @-@ a @-@ century -- will not be repeated .
By putting paid to any revanchist tendencies in Russia concerning the Baltics , Europe is made a safer place , and Russia is helped in its effort to redefine itself as a national state and not an empire .
Expansion will also create a better Europe because enlargement widens the territory in which countries are committed to NATO &apos;s political values , including individual rights as well as the rights of minorities .
Fortunately Russia now seems to grasp the value of this political aspect of NATO @-@ enlargement .
Rightly so : enlargement of NATO is not an &quot; expansion &quot; that threatens Russia or other countries which strive for democratic political reforms .
On the contrary , expansion takes away the worries - be they real or imagined - that surround the situation of the large Russian @-@ speaking populations that now live outside of Russia but within the borders of the former Soviet Union .
The civil rights of the Russian minorities in the Baltics and elsewhere are now enshrined in law , due in no small part to NATO demands .
Those civil rights initiatives on the part of NATO reflect the increasingly workmanlike way that Russia , Europe , and America now work out their disagreements .
Indeed , enlargement of NATO comes only a few days after a deal was struck between Russia and the EU on the tricky question of access to the Russian enclave of Kaliningrad .
This small piece of Russia , with 1 million inhabitants and bordering on the Baltic Sea , is squeezed between Poland and Lithuania , two future members of the EU .
This could have incited a complicated situation where Russians were faced with tough visa requirements when travelling between Kaliningrad and Russia proper .
A deal was struck between President Putin and the EU that makes access much easier without compromising the status of Lithuania and Poland within the EU @-@ regime .
This , in turn , created once again the kind of win @-@ win situation that is so important for future relations between the EU and Russia .
When the enlargement of the EU into Central and Eastern Europe is finally decided by the European Council in Copenhagen next month , the conclusion is clear : Europe has become a much better and safer place to live in , thanks to the decisions taken by NATO and the EU during the crucial autumn of 2002 .
But this is no cause for complacency . For the really hard work is only now beginning : dealing with all the internal practical and political problems that these enlargements will bring , as well as reckoning with countries in the membership waiting rooms , in particular Russia .
Relations with Russia are of vital importance if Europe is to continue to improve the quality of life of its citizens and address concerns of safety .
The common threat of international terrorism must be faced jointly .
We need to convince each other that the fight against this common enemy has to be fought with a keen eye to balancing the needs of security with those of human and minority rights .
Kaliningrad could be a litmus test of these relations .
The first hurdle has been overcome with the agreement on access to the enclave .
The next hurdle is to support Kalingrad &apos;s fight against disease and crime as well as strengthening its economic and social structures .
This calls for generosity from the EU and flexibility from Moscow .
In a wider context this could lead to a strengthening of the so @-@ called Northern Dimension of the EU , where the goal is a free trade area to include all the countries around the Baltic Sea .
Such a grand project can be achieved if the political will exists and asserts itself .
Only a few years ago EU and NATO enlargement were regarded as wild dreams .
But determination and political will has now made the dreams come true .
Now is the time to set new ambitious goals for Europe .
A Better Way to Reduce Nuclear Risks
In 1977 , when I served in President Jimmy Carter &apos;s State Department , I was sent to India to dissuade that country &apos;s leaders from developing a nuclear bomb .
My hosts replied that they needed to keep up with China .
I said that Pakistan would inevitably follow suit and the world would become less safe .
India promised that it would not export its weapons technology .
So far as we know , its leaders have kept their word .
But revelations about the nuclear weapons smuggling network organized by A. Q. Khan , the father of Pakistan &apos;s bomb , confirm the danger I predicted back then .
Some call Khan &apos;s network an effort to spread an &quot; Islamic bomb , &quot; but given that North Korea was on the list of recipients along with Libya and Iran , it might better be termed a corrupt bomb .
As events in Pakistan illustrate , the spread of nuclear technology does not extend the stability that comes with mutual deterrence .
Rather , it increases the prospects of corrupt leakage that may allow terrorist groups access to nuclear weapons .
That makes everyone less safe .
Any pathological group of extremists could destroy New Delhi , Tokyo , Paris , or any city they chose .
Now the world &apos;s attention is focussed on Iran , one recipient of Pakistani technology , as the country seemingly keenest to create its own nuclear arsenal .
According to the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) , Iran began enriching uranium at a pilot centrifuge plant last August , and is constructing larger underground enrichment facilities .
Iran proclaims that its programs are for peaceful generation of nuclear energy , but inspectors have already found traces of highly enriched weapons @-@ grade uranium .
Last October , Mohamed El Baradei , the head of the IAEA , announced that Iran had accepted enhanced inspection procedures .
In addition , after visits by the French , British , and German foreign ministers , Iran announced a temporary suspension of its enrichment program .
Now it hints that it may resume enrichment , and recent press reports about the imports from Pakistan suggest Iran failed to disclose everything to the IAEA .
Iran claims that as a party to the Non @-@ Proliferation Treaty , it has the right to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes .
Correct , because the NPT was born with a loophole .
Even if a country agrees to broad ranging IAEA inspections , it can legally accumulate enriched uranium ( or reprocessed plutonium ) under the guise of a peaceful energy program , and then suddenly declare that circumstances have changed and withdraw from the treaty - with the ability to produce nuclear weapons on short notice .
If Iran did this , it would not only add to the dangers in an unstable region , but would likely begin a process of unravelling the non @-@ proliferation regime worldwide .
Iran may ask what right others have to demand that it forego nuclear weapons .
The answer lies both in the fact that it promised not to do so when it signed the NPT and in the consequences that it would impose on others .
For these reasons , President Bush declared an Iranian nuclear weapon unacceptable .
However , America &apos;s unilateral options are limited .
Not only is the US military busy trying in Iraq , but the way the US went into Iraq - which proved to have fewer nuclear capabilities than Iran - undermined American credibility , making it difficult to recruit allies to contain Iran &apos;s nuclear ambitions .
Fortunately , there is a multilateral option and an existing precedent .
In the mid @-@ 1970 &apos;s , many parties to the NPT planned to import and develop enrichment and reprocessing facilities .
Realizing the threat to the non @-@ proliferation regime , countries as diverse as the Soviet Union , France , Germany , and Japan formed a &quot; Nuclear Suppliers Group &quot; that restrained the export of enrichment and reprocessing facilities .
That plugged part of the loophole in the treaty without amending it .
Today , such countries should join together to offer Iran ( and others ) a deal .
Countries that wish to develop nuclear energy but not nuclear bombs should be given international guarantees of fuel supply and disposal of spent fuel .
For example , Russia , which is helping Iran construct a nuclear reactor at Bushehr , should offer Iran a guarantee of low enriched uranium fuel and reprocessing of the reactor &apos;s spent fuel by sending it back to Russia if Iran agrees to forego enrichment and reprocessing .
This deal could then be given teeth by the UN Security Council .
The Council would declare that further proliferation of nuclear weapons is a threat to peace , and that any country moving in that direction is subject to sanctions .
Such a resolution would also include a carrot by guaranteeing Iran access to the non @-@ dangerous parts of the nuclear energy fuel cycle .
The pot could be further sweetened by offers to relax existing sanctions and provide a security guarantee if Iran remains non @-@ nuclear .
European foreign ministers have already expressed their concerns about Iran &apos;s nuclear program .
Russia indicates that it is willing to provide such fuel services .
It is time for the Security Council to try to internationalize the most dangerous parts of the nuclear fuel cycle .
It is not too late to learn the lessons of the misadventures of A. Q. Khan .
A Big Chance for Small Farmers
NEW YORK - The G @-@ 8 &quot; s $ 20 billion initiative on smallholder agriculture , launched at the group &apos;s recent summit in L &apos;Aquila , Italy , is a potentially historic breakthrough in the fight against hunger and extreme poverty . With serious management of the new funds , food production in Africa will soar .
Indeed , the new initiative , combined with others in health , education , and infrastructure , could be the greatest step so far toward achieving the Millennium Development Goals , the internationally agreed effort to reduce extreme poverty , disease , and hunger by half by 2015 .
During 2002 @-@ 2006 , I led the United Nations Millennium Project , which aimed to achieve the Millennium Development Goals , for then @-@ UN Secretary General Kofi Annan .
One cornerstone of the project was &quot; smallholder farmers , &quot; meaning peasant farm families in Africa , Latin America , and Asia - working farms of around one hectare ( 2.5 acres ) or less .
These are some of the poorest households in the world , and , ironically , some of the hungriest as well , despite being food producers .
They are hungry because they lack the ability to buy high @-@ yield seeds , fertilizer , irrigation equipment , and other tools needed to increase productivity .
As a result , their output is meager and insufficient for their subsistence .
Their poverty causes low farm productivity , and low farm productivity reinforces their poverty .
It &apos;s a vicious circle , technically known as a poverty trap .
The UN Millennium Project &apos;s Hunger Task Force , led by two world @-@ leading scientists , M. S. Swaminathan and Pedro Sanchez , examined how to break this vicious circle .
The Hunger Task Force determined that Africa could substantially increase its food production if help was given to smallholder farmers , in the form of agricultural inputs . The Millennium Project recommended a big increase in global funding for this purpose . Drawing on that work and related scientific findings , Annan launched a call in 2004 for an African Green Revolution , based on an expanded partnership between Africa and donor countries .
Many of us , notably current UN Secretary General Ban Ki @-@ moon , have worked hard to make this possible , with Ban repeatedly emphasizing the special emergency arising from the global food , financial , and energy crises of the past two years .
The G @-@ 8 announcement reflects these years of effort , and of course the boost from the leadership of US President Barack Obama , Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Zapatero , Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd , World Bank President Robert Zoellick , European Commissioner Louis Michel , European Parliamentarian Thijs Berman , and others .
Now the key is to make this effort work .
The lessons of history are clear .
Getting seed and fertilizer to smallholder farmers at highly subsidized prices ( or even free in some cases ) will make a lasting difference .
Not only will food yields rise in the short term , but farm households will use their higher incomes and better health to accumulate all sorts of assets : cash balances , soil nutrients , farm animals , and their children &apos;s health and education .
That boost in assets will , in turn , enable local credit markets , such as micro @-@ finance , to begin operating .
Farmers will be able to buy inputs , either out of their own cash , or by borrowing against their improved creditworthiness .
A consensus has now been reached on the need to assist smallholders , but obstacles remain .
Perhaps the main risk is that the &quot; aid bureaucracies &quot; now trip over each other to try to get their hands on the $ 20 billion , so that much of it gets taken up by meetings , expert consultations , overhead , reports , and further meetings . &quot; Partnerships &quot; of donors can become an expensive end in themselves , merely delaying real action .
If donor governments really want results , they should take the money out of the hands of thirty or more separate aid bureaucracies and pool it in one or two places , the most logical being the World Bank in Washington and the International Fund for Agricultural Development ( IFAD ) in Rome .
One or both of these agencies would then have an account with several billion dollars .
Governments in hunger @-@ stricken regions , especially Africa , would then submit national action plans that would provide details on how they would use the donor funds to get high @-@ yield seeds , fertilizer , irrigation , farm tools , storage silos , and local advice to impoverished farmers .
An independent expert panel would review the national plans to verify their scientific and managerial coherence .
Assuming that a plan passes muster , the money to support it would quickly be disbursed .
Afterward , each national program would be monitored , audited , and evaluated .
This approach is straightforward , efficient , accountable , and scientifically sound .
Two major recent success stories in aid have used this approach : the Global Alliance on Vaccines and Immunizations , which successfully gets immunizations to young children , and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS , TB , and Malaria , which supports national action plans to battle these killer diseases .
Both have saved millions of lives during the past decade , and have paved the way to a new more efficient and scientifically sound method of development assistance .
Not surprisingly , many UN agencies and aid agencies in rich countries fight this approach .
All too often , the fight is about turf , rather than about the most effective way to speed help to the poor .
Obama , Rudd , Zapatero , and other forward @-@ thinking leaders can therefore make a huge difference by following up on their pledges at the G @-@ 8 and insisting that the aid really works .
The bureaucracies must be bypassed to get help to where it is needed : in the soil tilled by the world &apos;s poorest farm families .
A Black and White Question
NEW YORK - In the afternoon of July 16 two men appeared to be breaking into a fine house in an expensive area of Cambridge , Massachusetts .
Alerted by a telephone call , a policeman arrived smartly on the scene .
He saw one black male standing inside the house and asked him to come out .
The man refused .
He was then told to identify himself .
The man , still refusing to step out , said he was a Harvard professor , showed his ID , and warned the cop not to mess with him .
He said something about black men in America being singled out , and asked the cop , who was white , for his name and identification .
The cop , joined by several colleagues , arrested the professor for disorderly conduct .
We now know that the professor had broken into his own home , with the help of his chauffeur , because the door was jammed .
What was unusual here was not the cop &apos;s heavy @-@ handedness .
Most people in the US know that if you talk back to the police , they will get nasty very fast .
The fact that the man was black might or might not have made the cop go for his handcuffs even sooner than he might normally have done .
That , too , would not have been unusual .
What made this case special was that Henry Louis &quot; Skip &quot; Gates is one of the most celebrated professors in the country , famous for his books , his articles , and numerous television appearances .
He is a grandee , a mover and shaker in the academic and media world , a friend of President Barack Obama . That is why he warned the cop , Sgt. James Crowley , a veteran of the Cambridge police force , not to mess with him .
Class and race overlap in the US .
In this instance , it is impossible to pry them apart .
Gates , deeply conscious , indeed a specialist of the terrible history of race relations in his country , instinctively assumed that he was a victim of prejudice .
From his words it appears that he was equally conscious of not getting the proper respect due to a distinguished Harvard professor and media celebrity . As he put it to his daughter in an interview published online : &quot; &#91; Crowley &#93; should have gotten out of there and said , &quot; I &apos;m sorry , sir , good luck .
Loved your &#91; television &#93; series - check with you later ! &quot; &quot;
Alas , Sgt.Crowley had never heard of Professor Gates . A local man whose brothers all serve in the police force , a sports fan , and an amateur basketball coach , Crowley does not move in the same social circles as Gates .
As it happens , the charges were duly dropped , and there the case might have rested if President Obama , tired and frustrated after weeks of fighting for his healthcare bill , had not weighed in on behalf of his &quot; friend &quot; Gates , and called the police &quot; stupid . &quot;
Both he and Gates then spoke of &quot; learning &quot; from the incident .
Gates might even be planning a television documentary on racial profiling .
One thing to be learned , if we didn &apos;t know this already , is how close racial sensitivities are to the surface of US life , despite the election of a black president .
The complexities of black anger , white guilt , and of black , and white fear , are so vexed that most Americans prefer not to talk about race at all . The field is too full of mines .
One of Obama &apos;s great achievements is that he made it into a serious topic through the brilliance and subtlety of his rhetoric .
And there remains plenty to talk about : the grotesquely disproportionate number of black men in US prisons ; the lack of educational opportunities in poor , mostly black areas ; the appalling healthcare system ; and the very real brutality used by police officers against blacks , who don &apos;t have the privilege of a Harvard ID .
It is probably true that many white policemen , even if they are trained to avoid racial profiling , as Sgt. Crowley was , need to be convinced that a black man can be at home in one of the finer houses of Cambridge , or any other American city .
But is the Gates affair the right way to enter into this discussion ?
One might argue that it
There is , however , a danger that it will have an adverse affect on the necessary national discussion about race .
By having made such a big issue out of what was in fact a relatively minor event Gates could be accused of trivializing much worse instances of abuse .
Indeed , we don &apos;t even know for certain whether this was such an instance .
Crowley never mentioned the color of Gates &quot; skin .
There was no question of violence . There were just very raw nerves and hypersensitivity to hints of disrespect , on the part of the professor , and of the cop .
Outrage about a professor who is not to be messed with is not the best way to discuss the plight of countless , poor , anonymous people , whom most of us find it too easy to ignore .
A Bollywood Bride for Sarkozy ?
PARIS &amp; # 45 ; &amp; # 45 ; Ever since French President Nicolas Sarkozy took himself off his country &apos;s most @-@ eligible @-@ bachelor list by publicly acknowledging his affair with supermodel @-@ turned @-@ pop @-@ musician Carla Bruni during a romantic trip to Euro Disney , he &apos;s run into trouble .
His ratings have dipped below 50 % for the first time .
Older French citizens don &apos;t find the public spectacle of their leader in love very amusing .
Abroad , Egyptian lawmakers were so exercised over the prospect of the French head of state sharing a bed with his girlfriend that several vented their disapproval on the floor of the parliament .
Likewise , India is all in a quandary over how to handle protocol during Sarkozy &apos;s impending visit to the subcontinent as the guest of honor at the country &apos;s Republic Day celebrations on January 26 .
Should the First Girlfriend have her own motorcade , as a first lady would ?
Meanwhile , the same hard @-@ right Hindu groups that protest Valentine &apos;s Day as a decadent Western holiday have warned that if Sarkozy arrives with his girlfriend in tow , they &apos;ll be out in the streets to welcome him .
This controversy has threatened to cast a pall over a much @-@ heralded summit between two of the world &apos;s great democracies .
With lucrative deals at stake for the big @-@ ticket products that drive the French economy - military hardware , nuclear power plants , and Airbus planes - France has a strong interest in a successful summit in India .
So , as rumors fly of secret marriage ceremonies either already concluded or in the works , could the trouble brewing in India over the French president &apos;s very public love life be behind the rush to have the couple legally wed ?
The news in Sarkozy &apos;s favored media outlet
It &apos;s &quot; serious , &quot; the smitten president admitted .
But he refused , even under direct questioning by reporters , to reveal an exact date .
&quot; You &apos;ll probably find out after it &apos;s happened , &quot; he taunted .
Rumor has it the couple has set February 8 or 9 for the wedding . Others say that Sarkozy has already outsmarted the media by secretly marrying in the Elysee Palace , even as he was dodging wedding questions .
If that is true , then Sarkozy missed the romantic opportunity of a lifetime .
If the couple sizzled for cameras with Luxor and Petra as the backdrop , just imagine how hot things could get at the most romantic spot on Earth , the Taj Mahal .
And , given the current rage for all things Bollywood in France , a lavish Indian wedding would be fitting .
Bruni &apos;s own life path closely resembles any number of Bollywood stars who have made the transition from model to actress .
A comely brunette who sings is perfect for a Bollywood makeover .
The Indian government will be nothing if not relieved to see the first girlfriend made a wife .
As one of India &apos;s leading daily newspapers , the
Despite the sometimes downright pornographic on @-@ screen writhing of Bollywood starlets , India is still a deeply conservative society .
Divorce is anathema .
( Sarkozy is now twice divorced . )
And , while mistresses abound among the privileged classes , they do not strut publicly by their power @-@ mates &quot; sides .
Kissing and fondling in public , even by spouses , is taboo .
In this respect , India more resembles the France with which Sarkozy wants to make a clean break than the current one .
Most Indians , as it seems many French , would prefer not to shed the &quot; hypocrisy &quot; Sarkozy laments on the part of his predecessors ( read : former French President François Mitterrand , who had a child with his mistress about whom the public knew nothing until the man &apos;s funeral ) .
Sarkozy , of all people , should know that a large part of the gravitas of office derives from pomp and circumstance .
Statecraft is a realm where appearances are meant to be deceiving .
When Sarkozy , who otherwise has such finely tuned media instincts , protests that he &apos;s no different from any other man , he comes dangerously close to confusing the office and the person of the president .
Most French people could only dream of an exotic wedding in India .
Sarkozy could make that dream come true .
If he really is as head @-@ over @-@ heels in love with Bruni as he claims , and plans to marry her imminently , why not take advantage of his upcoming trip to India and make this a wedding to remember ?
He could meet his bride seated majestically on the caparison of an elaborately decorated elephant , and she would look ravishing swathed and bejeweled in Indian finery .
The &quot; bling @-@ bling &quot; president , as Sarkozy has been dubbed , can wear all the gold he wants and heap yet more diamonds on his bride .
The cameras would roll , Indians would smile , and France would be treated to a Bollywood spectacle beyond its wildest dreams .
And if it &apos;s too late for the wedding , there &apos;s always the reception .
A Bomb in Every Reactor
BERLIN - Twenty @-@ five years after the nuclear disaster at Chernobyl , the ongoing catastrophe at the Fukushima nuclear reactor in Japan has - it must be hoped - made clear once and for all that the purported blessings of the nuclear age are mere illusions : nuclear power is neither clean nor safe nor cheap .
Indeed , the opposite is true . Nuclear power is saddled with three major unresolved risks : plant safety , nuclear waste , and , most menacing of all , the risk of military proliferation .
Moreover , the alternatives to nuclear energy - and to fossil fuels - are well known and technically much more advanced and sustainable .
Taking on nuclear risk is not a necessity ; it is a deliberate political choice .
Fossil @-@ fuel and nuclear energy belong to the technological utopias of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries , which were based on a belief in the innocence of the technologically feasible and on the fact that , at the time , only a minority of people worldwide , largely in the West , benefited from technological progress .
By contrast , the twenty @-@ first century will be informed by the realization that the global ecosystem and its resources , which are indispensable for human survival , are finite , and that this implies an enduring responsibility to preserve what we have .
Meeting this imperative entails both an enormous technological challenge and an opportunity to redefine the meaning of modernity .
The energy future of nine billion people , which is what the world population will be in the middle of the century , lies neither in fossil fuels nor in nuclear energy , but in renewable energy sources and dramatic improvements in energy efficiency .
We already know this .
Why , then , do the most advanced countries , in particular , take on the risk of a mega @-@ catastrophe by seeking to create energy from radioactive fission ?
The answer , ultimately , doesn &apos;t lie with any civilian use of nuclear energy , but first and foremost with its military applications .
The energy derived from splitting uranium and plutonium atoms was originally used for the ultimate weapon , the atomic bomb .
Being a nuclear power provides sovereign states with protection and prestige .
Even today , the Bomb divides the world into two classes : the few states have it , and the many that do not .
The old Cold War world order was based on the nuclear arms race between the two superpowers , the United States and Soviet Union .
To stop others from trying to become nuclear powers , which would have multiplied and spread the risk of nuclear confrontation , the Non @-@ Proliferation Treaty ( NPT ) was framed in the 1960 &quot; s . To this day , it governs the relationships between the nuclear powers and the rest of the world , imposing renunciation on the have @-@ nots and nuclear @-@ disarmament obligations on the haves .
Of course , the NPT has repeatedly been violated or circumvented by states that never subscribed to it .
To this day , therefore , the risk remains that the number of nuclear powers will increase , particularly given small and medium powers &quot; hope to enhance their prestige and position in regional conflicts .
Iran is the most current example of this .
The nuclearization of these not @-@ always @-@ stable states threatens to make the regional conflicts of the twenty @-@ first century much more dangerous , and will also substantially increase the risk that nuclear weapons eventually end up in the hands of terrorists .
Despite the NPT , a clear separation between civilian and military use of nuclear energy hasn &apos;t always worked , or worked completely , because the NPT &apos;s rules permit all signatory states to develop and use - under international supervision - all of the components of the nuclear fuel cycle for civilian purposes .
From here , then , all that is required to become a nuclear power are a few small technical steps and political leaders &quot; decision to take them .
This political power , not the requirements of energy policy , is what makes giving up nuclear energy so difficult .
As a rule , the path to nuclear @-@ power status always begins with so @-@ called &quot; civilian &quot; nuclear programs .
The supposed &quot; civilian &quot; nuclear ambitions of Iran have thus , for instance , led to a large number of such &quot; civilian &quot; programs in neighboring states .
Honni soit qui mal y pense !
And , of course , the reactions of the nuclear powers to the disaster at Fukushima will be watched and analyzed closely by the so @-@ called &quot; clandestine threshold countries . &quot;
So how will the world - first and foremost , the main nuclear powers - react to the Fukushima disaster ?
Will the tide truly turn , propelling the world towards nuclear disarmament and a future free of nuclear weapons ?
Or will we witness attempts to downplay the calamity and return to business as usual as soon as possible ?
Fukushima has presented the world with a far @-@ reaching , fundamental choice .
It was Japan , the high @-@ tech country par excellence ( not the latter @-@ day Soviet Union ) that proved unable to take adequate precautions to avert disaster in four reactor blocks .
What , then , will a future risk assessment look like if significantly less organized and developed countries begin - with the active assistance of the nuclear powers - to acquire civilian nuclear @-@ energy capabilities ?
Any decision to continue as before would send an unambiguous message to the clandestine threshold countries that are secretly pursuing nuclear weapons : despite lofty rhetoric and wordy documents , the nuclear powers lack the political will to change course .
Were they to abandon nuclear energy , however , their epochal change of heart would constitute a seminal contribution to global nuclear security - and thus to the fight against nuclear proliferation .
A Born @-@ Again CAP
WAGENINGEN , NETHERLANDS - Born in 1957 , the Common Agricultural Policy ( CAP ) is now more than 50 years old , and the European Commission is proposing what it calls a health check for its middle @-@ aged child .
But superficial repairs will not meet the European Union &apos;s future needs .
The CAP must be born again .
Work on its renewal is due to start now , with the completed project ready in 2013 .
But a much more profound re @-@ think is needed .
The CAP &apos;s original aim was to provide a secure source of food for the six original member states of the Union , which were importers of food and sought a degree of self @-@ sufficiency .
Good , healthy , and cheap food had to be accessible for all citizens .
Improved agricultural productivity would benefit rural areas and give farmers a comparative share in the Union &apos;s growing wealth .
Instruments to achieve those objectives were developed , and food security was achieved .
The CAP quickly came to be seen as the jewel in the crown of the European project .
As the EU has evolved and expanded , food systems have become more complex , involving production , processing , supply @-@ chain organization , and wholesale and retail distribution , with all of these involving new issues like health and the environment .
The use of land is also receiving more serious scrutiny .
A 1991 study by the Netherlands Scientific Council for Governmental Policy , entitled
Those figures were for an EU of 15 countries , so with today &apos;s 27 members the possibilities are even greater .
A Dutch analysis of land use has shown that by employing the best technical and ecological means on the best available land , substantial gains could be made in food production .
So it is not surprising that the number of farmers needed has fallen substantially .
Viewed from the standpoint of food security and the wealth of rural areas , there is now an urgent need to revisit the CAP &apos;s main instruments so that a new policy formula can be introduced .
Perverse subsidies must be removed and recent new ones favoring products such as bio @-@ fuels reconsidered .
The
A simplified CAP would encourage cleaner , more productive , and efficient agriculture .
A side benefit for the EU &apos;s standing in the world could be that the World Trade Organization &apos;s stalled Doha negotiations could be restarted once farmers in developing countries are assured of getting a fair deal from Europe . Moreover , the CAP &apos;s role as a motor of political and social integration in Europe could be restored once renewed policies are in place .
But renewal of this sort cannot be left to global market forces , as the results might not necessarily benefit European agriculture and society .
If the market &quot; misbehaves , &quot; farmers could be reduced to poverty , leading to the neglect of large areas of Europe .
That is a real enough danger to which policymakers must give serious thought as they reform the CAP on the basis of the following five pillars .
1 . &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; The EU needs a knowledge and innovation policy that strengthens European agriculture &apos;s competitiveness .
Such a policy has been successful in the Netherlands , substantially contributing to the development and power of the country &apos;s agribusiness .
Ten of 21 branches of Dutch agribusiness , including horticultural seeds , ornamentals , seed potatoes , and veal , are among the top contributors to the national economy and the country &apos;s trade balance .
In the EU as a whole , a policy directed toward research programs stimulating scientific excellence and greater coherence in the European knowledge system would greatly strengthen agriculture &apos;s competitiveness and contribute to food security and sustainable development .
2 . &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; Europe also needs a restructuring policy for land use .
Many structural improvement programs have been financed at the European level , but agricultural production and land use are not among them .
The development of an Agricultural Main Structure would compliment the European Ecological Main Structure .
Reforestation and the repair of natural ecosystems should also be part of a land use policy .
3 . &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; A policy for European food systems would treat production , processing , distribution , logistics , and retailing in combination .
Consumption patterns and preferences are an integral part of such systems .
Preliminary studies by the European Science Foundation &apos;s &quot; Forward Look on European Food Systems &quot; could prove useful in devising an EU @-@ wide policy .
4 . &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; Metropolitan agriculture in a rapidly urbanizing world can provide high @-@ quality produce on small amounts of land .
It offers an answer to rising demand for healthy food with minimal environmental side effects .
5 . &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; A new CAP should include a policy to safeguard Europe &apos;s landscapes .
But a cultural heritage should not be maintained everywhere , nor should it ignore cost .
And it should not be a defensive policy of the sort that tends to concentrate on poor @-@ quality land .
These five pillars involve drastic choices , but they will probably require less money from Europe &apos;s taxpayers , not more .
They could make a real contribution to cleaner , more productive , and efficient farming and land use , while addressing social needs .
A Boycott Against Reason
&quot; It could happen here &quot; is the shorthand phrase frequently used for a variety of alarming hypothetical scenarios . &quot; How could this happen here ? &quot; was the question more pertinently asked in Great Britain recently , as its universities witnessed the unfolding of an all @-@ too @-@ real and perplexing action .
In early June , the National Association of Teachers in Further and Higher Education ( NATFHE ) , Britain &apos;s largest academic union , with 67,000 members , passed a motion to sever ties with all Israeli professors and institutions of higher learning unless they publicly dissociate themselves from &quot; continuing Israeli apartheid policies . &quot;
The motion was subsequently revoked ; but the fact that it was put forward at all is astonishing enough .
Indeed , the union &apos;s call for a wholesale boycott contravened its most fundamental values : the principle of academic freedom , openness , and exchange ; protection of research from state politics ; and the fundamental right to free speech .
The motion implicitly adopted the yardstick of collective punishment and a distinctly McCarthyite tone , demanding a sort of &quot; disloyalty oath &quot; from Israeli academics .
What led scholars who are putatively the guardians of democratic freedoms to embrace measures so reminiscent of fascist and Stalinist tactics ?
Unfortunately , the NATFHE effort is part of a larger phenomenon .
In 2005 , the Association of University Teachers ( AUT ) called for a more limited boycott , singling out Bar Ilan and Haifa Universities for opprobrium .
Before that , a petition , signed by roughly 80 prominent British intellectuals and a few from other European countries , demanded the cessation of European Union funding for Israeli cultural projects and institutions .
These campaigns , encouraged by Palestinian groups and non @-@ governmental organizations , have been accompanied by individual acts of professional ostracism , and an informal boycott of Israeli scholars , publications , and cultural projects already exists in some European circles .
Such developments suggest an advanced and deeply disturbing trend , whereby certain segments of the European intelligentsia are willing to violate their own beliefs in order to target one state for unique stigmatization ; and whereby insidious and sometimes illegal forms of discrimination against that state &apos;s citizens are increasingly seen as acceptable .
In a certain ideological mind @-@ set
In the putatively &quot; radical &quot; interpretation , the relationship between Israel and the Palestinians is rarely seen as a conflict between two groups with sometimes tragically opposed interests .
Rather , the stubborn complexities of the situation are reduced to a stark struggle between absolute power and absolute powerlessness , the archetypal oppressor and archetypal oppressed .
The rhetoric applied to Israel becomes ever more extreme , and conducive to hatred .
Phrases like &quot; apartheid state &quot; and &quot; Zionism is racism , &quot; unthinkable in liberal discourse a few years ago , have become routine .
At the same time , the Palestinians become objects of romanticized identifications - one of the leaders of the NAFTHE motion was seen , prior to a meeting , draped in a Palestinian flag - and unwitting condescension .
They are seen as the last pure cause , the entirely innocent &quot; Other , &quot; unimplicated in their fate and apparently deprived of political agency or choice .
The possibility that the Palestinians are capable of deliberate decisions , that they have adopted policies which may have contributed to the current situation , or that they have exercised their own forms of power and violence , is , in this framework , never admitted .
Hamas was never mentioned in either of the university unions &quot; motions .
This is Manicheanism of the left , and , like Manicheanism of the political right , it can distort reality to the point of becoming divorced from it .
Certainly , the boycott efforts ignored basic facts .
Unless British academics are ill informed , they know that Israel , far from being an &quot; apartheid state , &quot; has a large proportion of Arab citizens ; that Israeli universities are well integrated , in some cases with considerable numbers of Arab students , as well as a number - admittedly small and insufficiently representative - of Arab faculty ; that many universities sponsor collaborative projects with Palestinian and Arab colleagues ; that they are often sites of dissidence against government policies ; and that such dissidence , even in radical forms , is tolerated .
Advocates of discriminatory measures often charge their opponents with stifling legitimate criticism of Israel .
This argument is both disingenuous and dishonest .
Many of the boycotts &quot; critics are also critical of Israel .
But credible criticism must be based on evidence - and on generally applicable criteria of judgment .
If the British unions wanted to be ethically consistent , they should apply the same strategies to universities in the numerous countries where human rights are brutally abused and free speech suppressed .
Some see this hostility to Israel as camouflaging old @-@ fashioned anti @-@ Semitism .
It is always risky to speculate about hidden motives ; nevertheless , systematic disparagement of Israeli society and culture undoubtedly encourages the sense that anti @-@ Semitism , too , is a permitted prejudice .
It is always easier to see a group or nation as a malevolent &quot; Other &quot; when this impulse is fed by an old , and still potent , prejudice .
There is a deeper issue at stake .
Democratic societies depend not only on the foundational principle of free speech , but on the character of political thought and conversation among various constituencies .
When the supposedly most enlightened and liberal of those constituencies resorts to illiberal discourse and intolerant measures , tendencies toward bigotry and ideological irrationality are reinforced .
The actions of the British academic unions have Israel as their obvious target .
But their main effect may be an erosion of reasoned debate and civil conduct , without which democracy is powerless against the forces of polarization and extremism .
A Breakthrough Against Hunger
NEW YORK - Today &apos;s world hunger crisis is unprecedentedly severe and requires urgent measures .
Nearly one billion people are trapped in chronic hunger - perhaps 100 million more than two years ago .
Spain is taking global leadership in combating hunger by inviting world leaders to Madrid in late January to move beyond words to action .
With Spain &apos;s leadership and United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki @-@ moon &apos;s partnership , several donor governments are proposing to pool their financial resources so that the world &apos;s poorest farmers can grow more food and escape the poverty trap .
The benefits of some donor help can be remarkable .
Peasant farmers in Africa , Haiti , and other impoverished regions currently plant their crops without the benefit of high @-@ yield seed varieties and fertilizers .
The result is a grain yield ( for example , maize ) that is roughly one @-@ third less than what could be achieved with better farm inputs .
African farmers produce roughly one ton of grain per hectare , compared with more than four tons per hectare in China , where farmers use fertilizers heavily .
African farmers know that they need fertilizer ; they just can &apos;t afford it .
With donor help , they can .
Not only do these farmers then feed their families , but they also can begin to earn market income and to save for the future .
By building up savings over a few years , the farmers eventually become creditworthy , or have enough cash to purchase vitally necessary inputs on their own .
There is now widespread agreement on the need for increased donor financing for small farmers ( those with two hectares or less of land , or impoverished pastoralists ) , which is especially urgent in Africa .
The UN Secretary General led a steering group last year that determined that African agriculture needs around $ 8 billion per year in donor financing - roughly four times the current total - with a heavy emphasis on improved seeds , fertilizer , irrigation systems , and extension training .
In addition to direct help for small farms , donors should provide more help for the research and development needed to identify new high @-@ yielding seed varieties , especially to breed plants that can withstand temporary flooding , excess nitrogen , salty soils , crop pests , and other challenges to sustainable food production .
Helping the poor with today &apos;s technologies , while investing in future improved technologies , is the optimum division of labor .
This investment pays off wonderfully , with research centers such as the International Rice Research Institute and the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre providing the high @-@ yield seeds and innovative farming strategies that together triggered the Asian Green Revolution .
These centers are not household names , but they deserve to be .
Their scientific breakthroughs have helped to feed the world , and we &apos;ll need more of them .
Dozens of low @-@ income , food @-@ deficit countries , perhaps as many as 40 @-@ 50 , have elaborated urgent programs for increased food production by small farms , but are currently held back by the lack of donor funding .
These countries have appealed to the World Bank for financing , and the Bank made a valiant effort in 2008 to help through its new Global Food Crisis Response Program ( GFCRP ) .
But the Bank does not yet have sufficient funds to meet these countries &quot; urgent needs , and has had to ration assistance to a small fraction of the flows that could be effectively and reliably used .
Hundreds of millions of people , in the meantime , remain trapped in hunger .
Many individual donor countries have declared that they are now prepared to increase their financial support for smallholder agriculture , but are searching for the appropriate mechanisms to do so .
The current aid structures are inadequate .
The more than 20 bilateral and multilateral donor agencies for agriculture are highly fragmented and of insufficient scale individually and collectively .
Despite the dedicated efforts of many professionals , the response to the hunger crisis remains utterly inadequate .
The 2008 planting seasons came and went with much too little additional help for impoverished small farmers .
African countries search endlessly , and mostly fruitlessly , for the small amounts of funding needed for their purchases of fertilizer and improved seeds .
My colleagues and I , serving on an advisory committee for the Spanish initiative , have recommended that donors pool their funds into a single international account , which we call the Financial Coordination Mechanism ( FCM ) .
These pooled funds would enable farmers in poor countries to obtain the fertilizer , improved seed varieties , and small @-@ scale irrigation equipment that they urgently need .
Poor countries would receive prompt and predictable financing for agricultural inputs from a single account , rather than from dozens of distinct and fragmented donors .
By pooling financial resources into a single @-@ donor FCM , aid programs &quot; administrative costs could be kept low , the availability of aid flows could be assured , and poor countries would not have to negotiate 25 times in order to receive help .
The time for business as usual is over .
The donors promised to double aid to Africa by 2010 , but are still far off track .
Indeed , during the past 20 years , they actually cut aid for agriculture programs , and only now are reversing course .
Meanwhile , a billion people go hungry each day .
We need a breakthrough that is demonstrable , public , clear , and convincing , that can mobilize the public &apos;s hearts and minds , and that can demonstrate success .
History can be made in Madrid at the end of January , when the world &apos;s richest and poorest countries converge to seek solutions to the global hunger crisis .
The lives of the billion poorest people depend on it .
A Breakthrough Opportunity for Global Health
NEW YORK - Every year , millions of people die from preventable and treatable diseases , especially in poor countries .
In many cases , lifesaving medicines can be cheaply mass @-@ produced , but are sold at prices that block access to those who need them .
And many die simply because there are no cures or vaccines , because so little of the world &apos;s valuable research talent and limited resources is devoted to addressing the diseases of the poor .
This state of affairs represents a failure of economics and law that urgently needs to be corrected .
The good news is that there are now opportunities for change , most promisingly through an international effort headed by the World Health Organization that would begin to fix the broken intellectual @-@ property regime that is holding back the development and availability of cheap drugs .
Two main problems limit the availability of medicines today .
One is that they are very costly ; or , more accurately , the price charged for them is very high , though the cost of producing them is but a fraction of that amount .
Second , drug development is geared toward maximizing profit , not social benefit , which skews efforts directed at the creation of medicines that are essential to human welfare .
Because the poor have so little money to spend , drug companies , under current arrangements , have little incentive to do research on the diseases that afflict them .
It doesn &apos;t have to be this way .
Drug companies argue that high prices are necessary to fund research and development .
But , in the United States , it is actually the government that finances most health @-@ related research and development - directly , through public support ( National Institutes of Health , National Science Foundation ) , and indirectly , through public purchases of medicine , both in the Medicare and Medicaid programs .
Even the part that is not government @-@ financed is not a conventional market ; most individuals &quot; purchases of prescription medicines are covered by insurance .
Government finances health @-@ care research because improved medicines are a public good .
The resulting knowledge benefits everyone by stopping epidemics and limiting the economic and human toll of widespread illness .
Efficiency requires sharing research as widely as possible as soon as it is available .
Thomas Jefferson compared knowledge to candles : when one is used to light another , it does not diminish the light of the first .
On the contrary , everything becomes brighter .
Yet , in America and most of the world , drug prices are still exorbitant and the spread of knowledge is tightly limited .
That is because we have created a patent system that gives innovators a temporary monopoly over what they create , which encourages them to hoard their knowledge , lest they help a competitor .
While this system does provide incentives for certain kinds of research by making innovation profitable , it allows drug companies to drive up prices , and the incentives do not necessarily correspond to social returns .
In the health @-@ care sector , it may be more profitable to devote research to a &quot; me @-@ too &quot; drug than to the development of a treatment that really makes a difference .
The patent system may even have adverse effects on innovation , because , while the most important input into any research is prior ideas , the patent system encourages secrecy .
A solution to both high prices and misdirected research is to replace the current model with a government @-@ supported prize fund .
With a prize system , innovators are rewarded for new knowledge , but they do not retain a monopoly on its use .
That way , the power of competitive markets can ensure that , once a drug is developed , it is made available at the lowest possible price - not at an inflated monopoly price .
Fortunately , some US lawmakers are taking a strong interest in this approach .
The Prize Fund for HIV / AIDS Act , a congressional bill introduced by Senator Bernie Sanders , is just such an initiative .
His bill also contains an important provision aimed at encouraging open @-@ source research , which would move the current research model away from secrecy toward sharing .
But , globally , our innovation system needs much bigger changes .
The WHO &apos;s efforts to encourage broad reforms at the international level are crucial .
This spring , the WHO released a report that recommends solutions similar to those proposed in the US Senate bill , but on a global level .
Importantly , the report , &quot; Research and Development to Meet Health Needs in Developing Countries , &quot; recommends a comprehensive approach , including mandatory funding contributions from governments for research on developing countries &quot; health needs ; international coordination of health @-@ care priorities and implementation ; and a global observatory that would monitor where needs are greatest .
In late May , the international community will have a chance to begin implementing these ideas at the WHO World Health Assembly - a moment of hope for public health around the world .
Reforming our innovation system is not just a matter of economics . It is , in many cases , a matter of life and death .
It is therefore essential to de @-@ link R &amp; amp ; D incentives from drug prices , and to promote greater sharing of scientific knowledge .
For America , the Sanders bill marks important progress .
For the world , the WHO &apos;s recommendations represent a once @-@ in @-@ a @-@ generation opportunity to remedy a long @-@ standing and egregious inequity in health care , and , more broadly , to set a model for governance of global public goods befitting an era of globalization .
We cannot afford to let this opportunity pass us by .
A Centerless Euro Cannot Hold
CAMBRIDGE - With youth unemployment touching 50 % in eurozone countries such as Spain and Greece , is a generation being sacrificed for the sake of a single currency that encompasses too diverse a group of countries to be sustainable ?
If so , does enlarging the euro &apos;s membership really serve Europe &apos;s apparent goal of maximizing economic integration without necessarily achieving full political union ?
The good news is that economic research does have a few things to say about whether Europe should have a single currency .
The bad news is that it has become increasingly clear that , at least for large countries , currency areas will be highly unstable unless they follow national borders .
At a minimum , currency unions require a confederation with far more centralized power over taxation and other policies than European leaders envision for the eurozone .
What of Nobel Prize winner Robert Mundell &apos;s famous 1961 conjecture that national and currency borders need not significantly overlap ?
In his provocative American Economic Review paper &quot; A Theory of Optimum Currency Areas , &quot; Mundell argued that as long as workers could move within a currency region to where the jobs were , the region could afford to forgo the equilibrating mechanism of exchange @-@ rate adjustment .
He credited another ( future ) Nobel Prize winner , James Meade , for having recognized the importance of labor mobility in earlier work , but criticized Meade for interpreting the idea too stringently , especially in the context of Europe &apos;s nascent integration .
Mundell did not emphasize financial crises , but presumably labor mobility is more important today than ever .
Not surprisingly , workers are leaving the eurozone &apos;s crisis countries , but not necessarily for its stronger northern region .
Instead , Portuguese workers are fleeing to booming former colonies such as Brazil and Macau .
Irish workers are leaving in droves to Canada , Australia , and the United States . Spanish workers are streaming into Romania , which until recently had been a major source of agricultural labor in Spain .
Still , if intra @-@ eurozone mobility were anything like Mundell &apos;s ideal , today we would not be seeing 25 % unemployment in Spain while Germany &apos;s unemployment rate is below 7 % .
Later writers came to recognize that there are other essential criteria for a successful currency union , which are difficult to achieve without deep political integration .
Peter Kenen argued in the late 1960 &quot; s that without exchange @-@ rate movements as a shock absorber , a currency union requires fiscal transfers as a way to share risk .
For a normal country , the national income @-@ tax system constitutes a huge automatic stabilizer across regions .
In the US , when oil prices go up , incomes in Texas and Montana rise , which means that these states then contribute more tax revenue to the federal budget , thereby helping out the rest of the country . Europe , of course , has no significant centralized tax authority , so this key automatic stabilizer is essentially absent .
Some European academics tried to argue that there was no need for US @-@ like fiscal transfers , because any desired degree of risk sharing can , in theory , be achieved through financial markets .
This claim was hugely misguided .
Financial markets can be fragile , and they provide little capacity for sharing risk related to labor income , which constitutes the largest part of income in any advanced economy .
Kenen was mainly concerned with short @-@ term transfers to smooth out cyclical bumpiness .
But , in a currency union with huge differences in income and development levels , the short term can stretch out for a very long time .
Many Germans today rightly feel that any system of fiscal transfers will morph into a permanent feeding tube , much the way that northern Italy has been propping up southern Italy for the last century .
Indeed , more than 20 years on , Western Germans still see no end in sight for the bills from German unification .
Later , Maurice Obstfeld pointed out that , in addition to fiscal transfers , a currency union needs clearly defined rules for the lender of last resort .
Otherwise , bank runs and debt panics will be rampant .
Obstfeld had in mind a bailout mechanism for banks , but it is now abundantly clear that one also needs a lender of last resort and a bankruptcy mechanism for states and municipalities .
A logical corollary of the criteria set forth by Kenen and Obstfeld , and even of Mundell &apos;s labor @-@ mobility criterion , is that currency unions cannot survive without political legitimacy , most likely involving region @-@ wide popular elections .
Europe &apos;s leaders cannot carry out large transfers across countries indefinitely without a coherent European political framework .
European policymakers today often complain that , were it not for the US financial crisis , the eurozone would be doing just fine .
Perhaps they are right .
But any financial system must be able to withstand shocks , including big ones .
Europe may never be an &quot; optimum &quot; currency area by any standard .
But , without further profound political and economic integration - which may not end up including all current eurozone members - the euro may not make it even to the end of this decade .
A Century of Chinese Protests
A Chinese Champion of Peace and Freedom
PRAGUE - On Christmas Day last year , one of China &apos;s best @-@ known human rights activists , the writer and university professor Liu Xiaobo , was condemned to 11 years in prison .
Liu is one of the main drafters of Charter 08 , a petition inspired by Czechoslovakia &apos;s Charter 77 , calling on the Chinese government to adhere to its own laws and constitution , and demanding the open election of public officials , freedom of religion and expression , and the abolition of &quot; subversion &quot; laws .
For his bravery and clarity of thought about China &apos;s future , Liu deserves the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize .
There are two reasons why we believe that Liu would be a worthy recipient of that prestigious award .
First and foremost , he stands in the tradition of Nobel Peace Prize laureates who have been recognized for their contribution to the struggle for human rights .
Nobel laureates such as Martin Luther King , Lech Walesa , and Aung San Suu Kyi are but a few of the many examples that the Nobel Committee has recognized in previous years .
We are convinced that the concepts that Liu and his colleagues put down on paper in December 2008 are both universal and timeless .
These ideals - respect for human rights and human dignity , and the responsibility of citizens to ensure that their governments respect those rights - represent humanity &apos;s highest aspirations .
Should the Nobel Committee choose to recognize Liu &apos;s courage and sacrifice in articulating these ideals , it would not only draw global attention to the injustice of Liu &apos;s 11 @-@ year sentence .
It would also help to amplify within China the universal and humanistic values for which Liu has spent so much of his life fighting .
The second reason why Liu deserves the Nobel Peace Prize resonates with Alfred Nobel &apos;s original intent for the award .
In working to promote human rights , political reform , and democratization in China , Liu has made a significant contribution to the values of peace and fraternity among nations that Nobel had in mind when he created the award more than a century ago .
Of course , democratization does not automatically guarantee better behavior on the world stage .
But it does facilitate a full and rigorous public debate over key questions of a state &apos;s foreign and domestic policies .
This active and searching conversation , the hallmark of a democratic polity , is the best hope for better decisions by governments , both at home and abroad .
Liu &apos;s committed advocacy on behalf of democracy in China is , above all , intended for the benefit of the Chinese people .
But his courage and example may help to accelerate the dawn of the day when China &apos;s participation in international affairs is aided by the expertise and oversight of civil @-@ society groups , an independent media , and an engaged citizenry able to express its views through the ballot box .
It is primarily for these two reasons that we believe that Liu would be a worthy recipient of the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize .
In conferring on Liu one of the world &apos;s highest honors , the Committee would be signaling once again the importance of human rights and democracy on the one hand , and world peace and international solidarity on the other .
Liu &apos;s harsh prison sentence was meant as an exemplary measure , a stern warning to all other Chinese who might want to follow his path .
We are convinced that there are moments when exemplary civic engagement , such as Liu &apos;s , requires an exemplary response .
Awarding him the Nobel Peace Prize is precisely the response that his courage deserves .
A Civilization in Crisis
A Climate Deal is Not Enough
AMSTERDAM - During the COP15 climate summit in Copenhagen , world leaders have been negotiating the future of our planet .
All the signs suggest that they are unlikely to sign a global climate treaty .
The views of the various countries , and of the various industrial and political power blocs , differ too much .
The politicians , civil servants , and other participants at the Copenhagen summit have mainly been bombarding each other with numbers . Figures on how much various countries should reduce CO2 emissions , the amount of money they should put up in coming years , the exact nature of their responsibilities , how much temperature increase Earth will be able to endure , and how long we can continue to wait .
These are all very important issues .
But the mere figures are simply not enough .
A different approach to the problem of climate change is needed .
The climate issue can only be solved on the basis of shared , deeply felt ethical principles .
Humanity has reached a critical moment in Earth &apos;s history , at which peoples and nations will have to recognize their solidarity - with each other and with the Earth - and start acting upon it .
Similar to the way world leaders adopted the United Nations Millennium Declaration in September 2000 , and embraced the resulting Millennium Development Goals , today &apos;s climate negotiators will have to commit themselves to creating a basis of shared fundamental ethical principles .
Such a basis is not hard to find .
Its inspiration can be the Earth Charter , which , launched in 2000 , was initiated by , among others , former USSR President Mikhail Gorbachev and Wangari Mathaai , who received the 2004 Nobel Peace Prize for her efforts in the Green Belt Movement , a pan @-@ African tree @-@ planting initiative .
The climate problem does not stop at borders .
In the next few decades , a low @-@ lying country like the Netherlands will need to invest billions of euros to intensify its age @-@ old struggle against rising water .
But in many other countries , the water is already flooding over the dikes , both literally and figuratively .
Climate change affects particularly those countries that lack the money needed to take adequate measures against rising sea levels , persistent droughts , or devastating storms , even though they had nothing to do with the primary cause of these problems - industrialization in the developed countries .
Apart from the necessary , often infrastructural adaptations to survive the effects of climate change , enormous efforts to prevent even worse things from happening are required .
Large investments in forestation , agriculture , and energy supply are called for .
In devising solutions , the role of women should be the main focus .
Women are often the first people who have to address the problem of gaining access to natural resources , and they are capable of playing a major role as pioneers in finding solutions to climate change and the way humankind should adapt to it .
In the short term , the world should become a sustainable global society of low CO2 emitters .
This is a mission for all humankind , in which patriotic feelings and thinking in terms of power blocs have no place .
The pursuit of a sustainable global society of low CO2 emitters requires a tremendous effort .
Precisely for this reason , it also requires a broadly shared ethical basis .
This would guide the negotiating parties in such a way that they look not only for solutions to a part of the problem , but first and foremost at a comprehensive solution to the entire problem .
The climate change issue is too important to be left in the care of politicians .
In Copenhagen , it is therefore imperative that not only nation states , but the business community and citizens combine their efforts to save our planet &apos;s climate .
That is not only a scientific necessity ; it is an ethical imperative .
A Clockwork Chemistry
OXFORD - In Anthony Burgess &apos;s novella ( and Stanley Kubrick &apos;s film ) A Clockwork Orange , Alex , an unrepentant psychopath , has his eyes pried wide open and is forced to watch violent images .
Like Pavlov &apos;s dog , Alex is being programmed to respond with nausea to violence and sex .
This scene remains shocking , but , like most science fiction , it has aged .
The behaviorist psychology it drew upon has long expired , and the fear that science will be used to make , or even force , people to be morally better now sounds old @-@ fashioned .
Science fiction ages fast , but it has a long afterlife .
Over the past decade , an army of psychologists , neuroscientists , and evolutionary biologists has been busy trying to uncover the neural &quot; clockwork &quot; that underlies human morality .
They have started to trace the evolutionary origins of pro @-@ social sentiments such as empathy , and have begun to uncover the genes that dispose some individuals to senseless violence and others to acts of altruism , and the pathways in our brain that shape our ethical decisions .
And to understand how something works is also to begin to see ways to modify and even control it .
Indeed , scientists have not only identified some of the brain pathways that shape our ethical decisions , but also chemical substances that modulate this neural activity .
A recent study has shown that the anti @-@ depressant Citalopram can change the responses of individuals to hypothetical moral dilemma scenarios .
Individuals given the drug were less willing to sacrifice an individual to save the lives of several others .
Another series of studies has shown that when the hormone oxytocin is administered via nasal spray , it increases trusting and cooperative behavior within social groups , but also decreases cooperation with those perceived as outsiders .
Neuroscientists have even magnetically &quot; zapped &quot; carefully targeted areas of people &apos;s brains to influence their moral judgments in surprising ways - for example , making it easier for them to lie .
Of course , no one is developing a &quot; moral pill &quot; that will transform us into saints .
But the research is advancing fast , and it is almost certain to suggest new ways to reshape our moral intuitions , sentiments , and motivations .
Should we use our growing scientific understanding of the basis of human morality to try to make people morally better ?
A Clockwork Orange was accused of glorifying violence , and some of its scenes are still hard to watch .
But as Burgess himself argued , the novella has an almost Christian message : what makes us human is our freedom to choose both good and evil , and for society to crush individuals into servile conformity is as wicked as , and perhaps even worse than , the sadism of psychopaths like Alex .
I suspect that many will agree with this view .
They will agree that our ability to distinguish right from wrong is something precious that we should safeguard , not a broken clock that scientists should fix .
Of course , most of us don &apos;t need to be conditioned to feel repulsed by rape or torture .
But this does not mean that we are morally good , or good enough .
As you read this , perfectly ordinary people somewhere in the world are doing unspeakable things to others .
Even in the most advanced and affluent societies , a vast concentrated effort is needed to preserve even minimal decency : think of locks , security alarms , police , courts , and prisons .
And it is doubtful that we really care enough about others , or give enough to the less fortunate .
Humans are born with the capacity to be moral , but it is a limited capacity which is ill equipped to deal with the ethical complexities of the modern world .
For thousands of years , humans have relied on education , persuasion , social institutions , and the threat of real ( or supernatural ) punishment to make people behave decently .
We could all be morally better , but it is clear that this traditional approach cannot take us much further .
It is not as if people would suddenly begin to behave better if we just gave them more facts and statistics , or better arguments .
So we shouldn &apos;t be too quick to dismiss the suggestion that science might help - in the first instance , by helping us design more effective institutions , more inspiring moral education , or more persuasive ethical arguments .
But science might also offer more direct ways of influencing our brains .
Science fiction sometimes limits rather than expands our sense of what is possible .
It would be self @-@ defeating , or worse , to try to promote morality through brutal coercion .
Governments must not be given the power to control its citizens &quot; moral code - we know that if they had such power , they would misuse it .
It would be ideal if individuals could freely explore different ways to improve themselves , whether by practicing mindfulness , reading moral philosophy , or , yes , by taking a &quot; morality &quot; pill .
But it is also true that although some people are eager to take pills that make them feel better or think faster , it is not so obvious that people would really want to take pills that would make them morally better .
It is not clear that people really want to be morally better .
And those who , like the psychopathic Alex , need the most help are probably those who would want it least .
These are , of course , hypothetical questions .
We don &apos;t yet know what is possible .
But it is better to begin the ethical discussion too early than too late .
And even if &quot; moral pills &quot; are just science fiction , they raise deep questions .
Will we want to take them if they ever become available ?
And what does it say about us if we won &apos;t ?
A Cloud over Airplane Safety
PRINCETON - When airports across Europe reopened after the closure caused by the eruption of Iceland &apos;s Eyjafjallajökull volcano , it was not because the amount of ash in the atmosphere had dropped , but because the risk that the ash posed to airplane safety had been reassessed .
Was it new scientific information that led to the lifting of the flight ban , or was it a reflection of the hardship , both personal and economic , that the ban was causing ?
Over six days , about 95,000 flights were canceled , at a cost to airlines of more than $ 1 billion .
An estimated five million people were stranded or delayed .
The British economy lost £ 1.5 billion , and others were similarly affected .
Flower growers in Kenya , who depend on air transport to take their short @-@ lived product to Europe , suddenly had no income .
Sixteen cancer patients in critical need of bone marrow for transplants were put at risk because the matching marrow could not be flown in from the United States or Canada .
In the past , jets flying into ash from volcanoes in the US , Indonesia , the Philippines , and Mexico have temporarily lost engine power , and in one case , dropped thousands of feet , although all managed to land safely .
But there was no evidence that the more widely dispersed ash blowing over Europe from Iceland would cause similar problems .
The decision to ground flights was based on the view that any level of ash in the atmosphere posed some risk to aircraft , and that no matter how slight that risk might be , the government &apos;s job was , as British Prime Minister Gordon Brown put it , &quot; to make sure that safety was paramount . &quot;
Indeed , in closing their skies , European governments seem to have given safety absolute priority over everything else .
Yet none of them act on that principle in other areas .
Some 3,000 people die on the world &apos;s roads every day .
Cutting speed limits to , say , 10 kilometers per hour would prevent most accidents and save many lives .
We don &apos;t do it , because we give safety a lower priority than our desire to spend less time driving .
The price we are willing to pay for safety cannot be infinite .
It is distasteful to put a price on human life , but the more we spend on safety , the less we will have for our other goals .
The British government uses a figure of a little more than £ 1 million as a general limit to the amount it is prepared to pay to save a statistical life - for example , by improving road safety .
In the US , the Department of Transportation is prepared to go up to $ 5.8 million - nearly four times as much , at current exchange rates - for the same purpose .
Does that mean that safety is paramount in the US , but not in Britain ?
Giovanni Bisignani , the head of the International Air Transport Association , an industry group , criticized the shutdown , saying that no risk assessment had been undertaken .
On the whole , though , the public seemed to support the decision .
Stranded travelers , interviewed at airports , typically said that they would rather be stuck at an airport than in a plane falling out of the sky .
But what if some travelers have a higher tolerance of risk , or just a more urgent need to travel , than others ?
John Stuart Mill , in his classic book On Liberty , considered a situation in which a man sets out to cross a bridge that we know is unsafe .
In Mill &apos;s view , we are justified in stopping him only to make sure that he is aware of the danger .
Once he knows of it , the decision is his to make , because only he can judge the importance of his journey , and balance that against the risk he is running .
Air safety is slightly different , because a crashing plane can kill people on the ground , but the greatest risks by far are borne by the passengers and crew .
If they are fully informed of the risks , and are still willing to fly - perhaps the crew has been offered more money , as workers in dangerous occupations often are - should we prevent them from making the decision to fly ?
In the end , after test flights with no passengers aboard had shown no engine damage , and aircraft engine manufacturers told aviation authorities that their engines could operate safely with a low level of ash in the atmosphere , Europe &apos;s skies were reopened .
The International Civil Aviation Authority has announced that it will convene a group of experts to help it provide guidance for the industry to decide what level of ash in the atmosphere makes it unsafe to fly .
Now that we have seen the costs of giving absolute priority to safety , we know that this is not only a technical question .
I trust that among the experts will be some who have pondered the underlying ethical question : how safe should we aim to be ?
A Communist Party without Communism
PRINCETON - Russian President Vladimir Putin &apos;s anointment of Alexander Medvedev to succeed him in what is supposed to be a democratic presidential election next March shows that Russia &apos;s leaders have not changed a whit .
It looks increasingly likely that , as under Leonid Brezhnev , we will see the same names in the news for decades to come .
According to Gleb Pavlovsky , the Putin regime &apos;s leading ideologist , the current Russian system is perfect in all respects but one : it doesn &apos;t know its enemies .
Indeed , it seems as if everyone in the Kremlin is reading Carl Schmitt , the Nazi legal theorist who taught that naming your enemy is the central mission of politics .
In the spirit of Schmitt , Putin &apos;s men designated a liberal party , the Union of Right Forces , as their ur @-@ enemy .
Its public meetings were broken up by armed police ; its leaders arrested and beaten ; Putin called its supporters &quot; coyotes . &quot;
What is surprising is that this aggressive behavior occurred in response to no visible danger . Oil prices are soaring , as are Putin &apos;s approval ratings .
His appointees control everything that matters , from Gazprom to the Central Electoral Committee .
Since the pacification of Chechnya with violence and subsidies , the incarceration or emigration of a few financially viable opponents , and the massive &quot; social investments &quot; of recent years , which , under Medvedev &apos;s personal supervision , have bribed the population , no credible force can seriously challenge Putin &apos;s men .
Yet their regime is in crisis , and they know it .
Russia &apos;s economy is more dependent on gas and oil than ever before .
Military reform has been reversed .
Despite increasing incomes , Russians are less educated and less healthy than they were when Putin came to power ; they still die at a shockingly young age .
Russian involvement in world affairs is tainted by poison and corruption .
State monopolies undo what private businesses created .
With more money , ill @-@ educated bureaucrats hire more ill @-@ educated bureaucrats ; as a result , the regime fails to rule the country .
The country is unruly , and its rulers know it .
So they panic .
Putin &apos;s aim was to subject all power to the control of Russia &apos;s security forces .
His generation of KGB officers watched the collapse of the Communist Party and all the governmental bodies that it &quot; directed and controlled , &quot; including the KGB .
Under Putin , the security service has had its revenge .
Its people have become powerful , arrogant , and enormously rich .
They have also become disobedient .
In 2004 , General Viktor Cherkesov , then Putin &apos;s representative in northwest Russia , published an essay that glorified the KGB as the only unspoiled authority in a corrupted country .
This essay , more than anything else , defined Putin &apos;s second term .
In October 2007 , Cherkesov ( now chief of one of the most obscure and powerful services , the Federal Anti @-@ Drug Administration ) published another essay in which he lamented his colleagues &quot; degradation : warriors had turned into traders , he complained .
Earlier , generals from a competing service , the FSB , had arrested Cherkesov &apos;s deputy for &quot; illegal bugging . &quot;
In a public gesture of despair , Cherkesov admitted the failure of Putin &apos;s project to reanimate Russian governance by subordinating it to the security services .
Cherkesov &apos;s deputy remains in prison .
Most believe that Putin is unable to intervene in his defense .
In the absence of Communist Party control , these security officers betrayed their corporate ethic and engaged in horse @-@ trading , applying force when a trade did not go well .
That this happens to ordinary Russians is clear ; what Cherkesov revealed was that Putin &apos;s circle also confronts this situation .
What is to be done when ex @-@ KGB warriors turn their swords and bugs against one another ?
Cherkesov &apos;s case exemplifies Putin &apos;s nightmare .
But if your instincts betray you , you go back to even deeper ones .
Now that Putin &apos;s people have left their predecessors &quot; neo @-@ liberal ideas behind and feel disenchanted with the ex @-@ KGB clique , the task is to recreate an omnipresent political party that controls the security services , the administration , business , and much else .
This party will be centralized under personal leadership and will reduce the state to a legal fiction .
Preaching nationalism , its managers will believe in their universal competence , as opposed to KGB @-@ style professionalism and corporatism .
Boris Yeltsin forbade party cells in state @-@ controlled institutions by decree .
Putin &apos;s lawyers will reverse that decision ; the party will have cells or committees in every factory , corporation , military unit , university department , etc .
Integrated by the leader &apos;s charisma and party discipline , party members will direct and unify the desolated country .
This is Putin &apos;s plan .
Like former Soviet leader Yuri Andropov , the only other KGB man to rule Russia , Putin will become the party &apos;s general secretary .
As in the Soviet era , state and governmental officials will be reduced to party ciphers - the role that President Medvedev will play under General Secretary Putin .
And , of course , being General Secretary carries no constitutional term limit .
In the end , Putin has what history left him : not ideas , just a faction yearning to consolidate its grip on power .
Lenin and Trotsky needed a party to make their ideology a reality ; Putin and Medvedev are devising an ideology to solidify their party .
It is a bizarre ideology .
Accusing warriors of being traders and traders of being thieves , it shuns its Marxist origins .
It will subordinate all who really do work - traders , warriors , journalists , and others - to party ideologues whose sole job is to search for enemies .
A Confederal Solution for Palestine
LONDON - Last month , while in New York City , I happened to be staying in the same hotel as Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu .
To accommodate his security needs , the hotel had been converted into a fortress , much like Israel itself .
Netanyahu was in the United States for yet another round of Middle East peace talks .
The US offered various sweeteners to induce Israel to freeze its West Bank settlement construction for another 90 days .
The Israelis refused ; another impasse was reached .
What , then , might be the prospects of a negotiated peace between two peoples with claims to the same land ?
The answer is : very poor .
All peace efforts since the Oslo accords of 1993 have been based on the &quot; two @-@ state solution , &quot; according to which Israel is supposed to turn over the occupied territories to a Palestinian state , the Palestinians are supposed to renounce any claims on the Jewish state , and everyone is supposed to live happily ever after .
A negotiated &quot; land for peace &quot; solution still remains official Western doctrine .
As US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton put it in a recent speech , &quot; a just , lasting , and comprehensive peace &quot; has to be based on &quot; two states for two peoples . &quot;
Meanwhile , the two main parties to the dispute , Palestine and Israel , are searching for unilateral alternatives to the stymied &quot; peace process . &quot; The Palestinians are pushing for international recognition of their statehood , while the Israelis are using their settlement policy to preempt a Palestinian state .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas has said that , if the latest peace talks collapse , he will press for UN recognition of a Palestinian state based on the 1967 borders .
This month , Brazil and Argentina recognized &quot; Palestine , &quot; and a cascade of Latin American countries is expected to follow .
Abbas is now setting his sights on Europe , and would ask Turkey to serve as a go @-@ between .
The game is to use international recognition of an independent Palestinian state to pressure the US to retreat from its almost unconditional support for Israeli policy .
Israel &apos;s main concern continues to be security .
The official Western doctrine is that Israel &apos;s long @-@ term security depends on the success of the &quot; peace process . &quot;
In practice , Israel has been taking other measures to secure its future .
Media attention has been focused on the &quot; security wall , &quot; which has certainly succeeded in reducing the level of violence .
But , to the hawks who now control Israeli politics , the key to Israel &apos;s security depends on depth of defense , for which expansion of the settlements is indispensable .
The hawks &quot; recipe for survival is threefold : continued military and economic support from the US , defensible frontiers through a strategic settlement program , and the carve @-@ up of the Palestinian West Bank into disconnected bantustans , or subordinate authorities , incapable of concerted opposition to Israeli policy .
Thus , while Abbas seeks to create a new &quot; fact on the ground &quot; by drumming up international support for a Palestinian state , Israel aims to trump him by making such a state unviable .
The ideal alternative to both strategies is a peace process that aims not to create two states , but rather to establish the political and economic basis for a single confederal state .
Indeed , the two @-@ state solution was always an illusion .
There was never enough land to satisfy the passionate possessiveness of all those with claims to it .
And , over time , Israeli settler disengagement from the West Bank and East Jerusalem has become just as impossible as any attempt by Israel to expel its remaining Arabs .
Israeli Jews are bound to stay in the West Bank and East Jerusalem , and Israeli Arabs are bound to stay in Israel proper .
These are the &quot; facts on the ground &quot; that doom Palestinian hopes for a sovereign Palestinian state no less than Israeli hopes for a wholly Jewish state .
Moreover , land for peace never made sense from an economic point of view .
If compensation for wrongs to the Palestinians was to be the guiding principle , there were always better ways of going about it than to found a rickety , poverty @-@ ridden new country dependent on foreign aid .
Most people have forgotten that the Paris Protocols of April 1994 established a customs union between Israel and the occupied territories , with a joint Economic Council to adjudicate trade disputes .
The free movement of goods , labor , and capital between the two parts could have given a tremendous economic boost to Palestinian GDP .
It could also have been the basis of a confederal state , whose Palestinian part would have benefited from the West Bank settlers &quot; productivity and taxes .
But this benign prospect was undermined by the violence needed to maintain the Jewish state and enable the emergence of a Palestinian one .
The official view remains that only an internationally guaranteed two @-@ state settlement will bring about the security needed for the economic revival of the Palestinian territories .
But it is just possible that unilateral Israeli policy , implicitly backed by the US , will create interim conditions of peace that are sufficient for economic growth to cool Palestinian nationalism .
The Palestinian cause is not the overriding preoccupation of even the Arab states , so Netanyahu &apos;s strategy of defense in depth stands a better chance of success than Abbas &apos;s pursuit of statehood through international recognition .
Netanyahu &apos;s project is not moral .
But that doesn &apos;t mean that it won &apos;t work , at least for a time .
A Confederation for Kosovo
Time is running out in Kosovo .
If a United Nations @-@ backed settlement is not reached by early December , the province &apos;s majority Albanian population is likely to declare independence unilaterally - a move that the United States has announced it may support .
That would be a disastrous step .
Russia would be furious , because it fears that Kosovo &apos;s secession - whether or not it is internationally recognized - might fuel separatist movements in the former Soviet empire .
Serbia is even more strongly opposed .
Dusan Prorokovic , Serbia &apos;s state secretary for Kosovo , has said that his country might use force to maintain its sovereignty .
Even if the government hesitates , ultranationalist groups might push Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica to send in troops : the current UN presence in Kosovo is very thin ( only 40 &quot; military observers &quot; and 2,116 policemen ) but the stationing of 15,000 NATO troops could make any armed clash very dangerous .
After eight years of international administration , Kosovo &apos;s Albanian majority has tasted freedom and is eager for full independence .
But Serbia claims that the province remains an essential part of its historical and cultural tradition .
Moreover , independence would not be accepted by the Serbian public , which has already watched in dismay as &quot; Great Serbia &quot; has been gradually whittled away , most recently with the secession of Montenegro .
Serbia is prepared to concede only &quot; enhanced autonomy &quot; to Kosovo , and some capacity to enter into international agreements .
Yet , while the two parties now seem irreconcilable , it is not too late for compromise .
But this is possible only by resuscitating - and updating - an old institution of the international community : a confederation of states .
By means of a binding UN Security Council resolution , Kosovo could be granted full and exclusive authority over its citizens and territory , as well as limited capacity for action on the international scene .
It could be authorized to enter into trade agreements as well as agreements concerning individuals ( for example , admission and circulation of foreigners , or extradition ) , plus the right to seek admission to the UN ( which does not require full sovereignty and independence ) .
Kosovo would thus gain some essential trappings of statehood .
However , a decision @-@ making body consisting of delegates from Kosovo , Serbia , and the European Union would be given full authority over major foreign policy issues ( for example , alliances and relations with international economic institutions ) , defence , borders ( in case Kosovo wished to join with Albania ) , and the treatment of Kosovo &apos;s Serbian minority .
As a result , Kosovo and Serbia would constitute two distinct international subjects , bound by a confederation hinging on a common decision @-@ making body .
Of course , this confederation would be asymmetrical , because the Serbian government &apos;s sovereignty over the rest of Serbia would remain intact and unlimited , whereas the Kosovar government &apos;s &quot; sovereignty &quot; over Kosovo would be restrained .
To avoid one of the two parties getting the upper hand and imposing arbitrary decisions , the common decision @-@ making body should consist of four Serbian delegates , two Kosovar delegates , and three representatives of the EU , thus requiring both sides to gain the support of the European delegates .
In addition , the EU should create a small but effective military force ( say , 5,000 troops ) to back up the common body &apos;s decisions .
As with any compromise , the contending parties would both gain and lose from this arrangement .
Serbia would save face , and would continue to have a say on crucial matters concerning Kosovo , including the treatment of the Serbian minority .
Kosovo would acquire limited independence , with its status rising from a province of a sovereign state to an international subject capable of entering into certain agreements with other states and even joining the UN .
The EU would benefit as well , by contributing to the stabilization of a highly volatile area .
Subsequently , the EU would monitor Kosovo and prevent any dispute that might turn violent .
A final advantage of this solution is that it would be temporary .
Historically , confederations sooner or later either become federations ( as occurred in the US , Germany , and Switzerland ) or , pushed by centrifugal forces , split up ( as with the United Arab Republic , established in 1958 , which split three years later into Egypt and Syria ) .
The confederation I advocate would thus constitute an intermediate stage ( lasting five or ten years ) , at the end of which Kosovo is likely to become fully independent .
Delaying a final solution in this way would provide time to verify Kosovo &apos;s prospects of joining the EU and thus eventually sharing &quot; sovereign authority &quot; with other independent states , which could deflate Kosovars &quot; dangerously robust nationalistic demands .
A Conservative Europe
Last week Tony Blair , Jacques Chirac , and Gerhard Schroeder met in Berlin .
They departed pledging to revive Europe &apos;s growth .
We &apos;ve heard that empty promise before .
Instead , the European Union needs a new direction .
I say this as leader of the party which has been at the forefront of Britain &apos;s engagement with Europe .
It was a Conservative government that first applied for membership in the early 1960 &apos;s .
A Conservative government took the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community in 1973 .
Margaret Thatcher worked with Jacques Delors to forge the Single Market in 1986 .
So I have no doubt that Britain must remain influential within the Union .
But British policy towards the EU has often led to worse rather than better relations among member states .
Faced with a new EU initiative , our traditional response has often been to oppose it , vote against it , lose the vote , then sulkily to adopt it while blaming everyone else .
Many Europeans are sick of British vetoes .
So am I.
Of course there are basic requirements that all member states must accept .
Foremost are the four freedoms of the single market ; free movement of goods , services , people and capital .
But a single market does not require a single social or industrial policy , far less a common taxation policy .
Allowing countries to pursue their own policies in these areas encourages competitiveness .
Forcing common standards means that Europe will fall further behind as member states shuffle their costs onto their neighbours .
Which areas should be applied to every member state , and which should be optional ?
I believe that every member state should administer those policies that do not directly and significantly affect other member states .
In areas which serve their national interest , individual members should decide whether to retain wholly national control or whether to co ‑ operate with others .
The Union &apos;s members should form a series of overlapping circles : different combinations of members should be able to pool their responsibilities in different areas of their own choosing .
Precedents exist for this .
NATO has been flexible since its inception .
France signed up for membership but later refused to submit her armed forces to NATO &apos;s central command .
Similar flexibility exists with the Euro , the Schengen Agreement , and the Social Chapter .
These precedents can be extended .
So far , everyone has had to move forward together , with individual countries negotiating specific opt ‑ outs .
But since 1998 , there has been a procedure within the Treaties - called enhanced co ‑ operation - that could allow some members to go ahead with further integration in a specific area without involving every other member .
Instead of individual member states having fraught negotiations to opt ‑ out of a new initiative , those that support it can simply opt ‑ in .
Countries that want to integrate further can do so .
They don &apos;t need to drag Britain and others kicking and screaming in their wake because the others are not compelled to join them .
In this way we can break free of the institutionalised tug of war that has characterised EU relations .
I am not talking about a two ‑ speed Europe .
That implies that we all agree on the destination and differ only about the speed of the journey .
I don &apos;t want to reach the destination that some of our partners may aspire to .
But I don &apos;t want to block their way .
There are some who say that this would mean a loss of influence on the part of those countries which choose not to integrate more closely .
But influence is not an end in itself - it is a means to an end .
Britain does not need a seat at the table when decisions on the Euro are taken .
Our economy has not been adversely affected by staying out .
Keeping the pound does not mean that we oppose the Euro , or hope for its failure .
The European Union should stop trying to do everything and concentrate on doing fewer things more effectively .
It should give member states the chance to develop an approach to Europe that suits their national traditions , within the EU framework .
It is on this basis that British Conservatives oppose the proposed constitution .
We disagree with many of its contents , of course , but also oppose the idea of having an EU constitution at all .
There is a world of difference between an association of nation states bound together by treaty , and a single entity , whether you call it a state or not , with its own legal personality , deriving its authority from its own constitution .
If this constitution were accepted in anything like the proposed form , the EU would gain many attributes and trappings of statehood : its own president and foreign minister , its own legal system .
The supremacy of EU law would derive not from Acts of national Parliaments but from a supra ‑ national constitution .
That is a radical change , not the mere tidying ‑ up exercise some suggest .
I do not believe it is right to make a change of such magnitude without specifically consulting the people on whose behalf we govern .
Elected parliaments do not own our liberties .
They safeguard them , and should not diminish those liberties without an explicit mandate .
Any proposal for a new constitution must be put to the British people and to the people in each EU member state .
A Conspiracy So Immense
NEW YORK - Is this the Age of the Conspiracy Theory ?
Plenty of evidence suggests that we are in something of a golden age for citizen speculation , documentation , and inference that takes shape - usually on the Internet - and spreads virally around the globe .
In the process , conspiracy theories are pulled from the margins of public discourse , where they were generally consigned in the past , and sometimes into the very heart of politics .
I learned this by accident .
Having written a book about the hijacking of executive power in the United States in the Bush years , I found myself , in researching new developments , stumbling upon conversations online that embrace narratives of behind @-@ the @-@ scenes manipulation .
There are some major themes .
A frequent one in the US is that global elites are plotting - via the Bilderberg Group and the Council on Foreign Relations , among others - to establish a &quot; One World Government &quot; dominated by themselves rather than national governments .
Sometimes , more folkloric details come into play , broadening the members of this cabal to include the Illuminati , the Freemasons , Rhodes Scholars , or , as always , the Jews .
The hallmarks of this narrative are familiar to anyone who has studied the transmission of certain story categories in times of crisis .
In literary terms , this conspiracy theory closely resembles The Protocols of the Elders of Zion , featuring secretive global elite with great power and wicked aims .
Historically , there tends to be the same set of themes : fearsome , uncontrolled transformative change led by educated , urbanized cosmopolitans .
Students of Weimar Germany know that sudden dislocations and shocks - rapid urbanization , disruption of traditional family and social ties , loosening of sexual restrictions , and economic collapse - primed many Germans to become receptive to simplistic theories that seemed to address their confusion and offer a larger meaning to their suffering .
Similarly , the &quot; 9 / 11 Truth Movement &quot; asserts that al @-@ Qaeda &apos;s attack on the Twin Towers was an &quot; inside job . &quot;
In the Muslim world , there is a widespread conspiracy theory that the Israelis were behind those attacks , and that all Jews who worked in the buildings stayed home that day .
Usually , conspiracy theories surface where people are poorly educated and a rigorous independent press is lacking .
So why are such theories gaining adherents in the US and other affluent democracies nowadays ?
Today &apos;s explosion of conspiracy theories has been stoked by the same conditions that drove their acceptance in the past : rapid social change and profound economic uncertainty .
A clearly designated &quot; enemy &quot; with an unmistakable &quot; plan &quot; is psychologically more comforting than the chaotic evolution of social norms and the workings - or failures - of unfettered capitalism .
And , while conspiracy theories are often patently irrational , the questions they address are often healthy , even if the answers are frequently unsourced or just plain wrong .
In seeking answers , these citizens are reacting rationally to irrational realities .
Many citizens believe , rightly , that their mass media are failing to investigate and document abuses .
Newspapers in most advanced countries are struggling or folding , and investigative reporting is often the first thing they cut .
Concentration of media ownership and control further fuels popular mistrust , setting the stage for citizen investigation to enter the vacuum .
Likewise , in an age when corporate lobbyists have a free hand in shaping - if not drafting - public policies , many people believe , again rightly , that their elected officials no longer represent them .
Hence their impulse to believe in unseen forces .
Finally , even rational people have become more receptive to certain conspiracy theories because , in the last eight years , we actually have seen some sophisticated conspiracies .
The Bush administration conspired to lead Americans and others into an illegal war , using fabricated evidence to do so .
Is it any wonder , then , that so many rational people are trying to make sense of a political reality that really has become unusually opaque ?
When even the 9 / 11 commissioners renounce their own conclusions ( because they were based on evidence derived from torture ) , is it surprising that many want a second investigation ?
Frequently enough , it is citizens digging at the margins of the discourse - pursuing such theories - who report on news that the mainstream media ignores .
For example , it took a &quot; conspiracy theorist , &quot; Alex Jones , to turn up documentation of microwave technologies to be used by police forces on US citizens . The New Yorker confirmed the story much later - without crediting the original source .
The mainstream media &apos;s tendency to avoid checking out or reporting what is actually newsworthy in Internet conspiracy theories partly reflects class bias .
Conspiracy theories are seen as vulgar and lowbrow .
So even good , critical questions or well @-@ sourced data unearthed by citizen investigators tend to be regarded as radioactive to highly educated formal journalists .
The real problem with this frantic conspiracy theorizing is that it leaves citizens emotionally agitated but without a solid ground of evidence upon which to base their worldview , and without constructive directions in which to turn their emotions .
This is why so many threads of discussion turn from potentially interesting citizen speculation to hate speech and paranoia .
In a fevered environment , without good editorial validation or tools for sourcing , citizens can be preyed upon and whipped up by demagogues , as we saw in recent weeks at Sarah Palin &apos;s rallies after Internet theories painted Barack Obama as a terrorist or in league with terrorists .
We need to change the flow of information in the Internet age .
Citizens should be able more easily to leak information , pitch stories , and send leads to mainstream investigative reporters .
They should organize new online entities in which they pay a fee for direct investigative reporting , unmediated by corporate pressures .
And citizen investigators should be trained in basic journalism : finding good data , confirming stories with two independent sources , using quotes responsibly , and eschewing anonymity - that is , standing by their own bylines , as conventional reporters do .
This is how citizens can be taken - and take themselves - seriously as documenters and investigators of our common situation .
In a time of official lies , healthy investigative energy should shed light , not just generate heat .
A Constitutional Coup in Ukraine
Changing constitutions is always a risky business .
But it is a downright dangerous one when undertaken to benefit one man alone .
Indeed , when a president volunteers to reduce the powers of his own office , you can be certain that he is up to no good .
That is exactly what is going on in Ukraine , where President Leonid Kuchma proposes to junk our presidential system and replace it with a strange type of parliamentary system he has concocted .
Kuchma has not suddenly converted to the view that parliamentary democracies are better than presidential ones .
No , Kuchma wants to change Ukraine &apos;s constitution for no other reason than to maintain his grip on power .
Today , Kuchma rules as an all @-@ powerful president .
But his term ends next year and he cannot run again .
So , instead of retiring gracefully , as presidents from Bill Clinton to Boris Yeltsin routinely do , Kuchma wants to change the constitution in order to become an all @-@ powerful prime minister who will never face a limit on the length of his term .
Of course , constitutions are not meant to protect the status quo if the status quo is rotten .
Constitutions can , and should , accommodate reform when necessary .
A powerful president , however , is not necessarily wrong for Ukraine .
In our wrenching postcommunist transition , it is essential that a government can act decisively .
To change a system that seems best suited to Ukraine &apos;s circumstances , you need a good reason .
The Ukraine president is authorized to appoint and sack the prime minister , dissolve parliament if he wishes , and rule by decree if he judges that the country &apos;s institutions are in danger .
He maintains day @-@ to @-@ day control over every aspect of government . So
Kuchma is not .
On the contrary , what is rotten in Ukraine is not its constitution , but its president , who is mired in charges of corruption and orchestrating the murder of journalists , and who is shunned by other world leaders .
As president , Kuchma is grotesquely unpopular .
Even Slobodan Milosevic had more support in Yugoslavia before his fall .
So Kuchma knows that he cannot rely on handpicking his successor , as Yeltsin did in Russia .
Unable to assure himself of a tame presidential successor , Kuchma wants what he calls a &quot; parliamentary republic &quot; with a weak president and powerful prime minister .
But the parliament he has in mind is a mutant , one where the authoritarian rule of the criminal clans Kuchma controls will continue , unabated , behind the facade of parliamentary procedure .
People too easily forget Ukraine , this big country on the border of the soon @-@ to @-@ be enlarged European Union .
But any attempt to prolong Kuchma &apos;s rule will create such a political mess that it is not absurd to fear that Ukraine could follow Belarus and the Balkans of the early 1990 &apos;s into outright dictatorship and chaos .
Indeed , this scenario could worsen , because Russia is unlikely to sit around idly and watch Ukraine unravel .
Intervention of some type seems more likely in such circumstances .
Only an imperial Russia , however , would dare reabsorb Ukraine .
But an imperial Russia cannot be a democratic Russia .
So Kuchma endangers freedom and human rights not only in Ukraine , but ultimately threatens Russia &apos;s democracy as well .
Luckily , there has never been a better time for the West--particularly the EU--to nudge Ukraine back from the brink .
With EU expansion coming next spring , all Ukrainians fear that a new wall will cut their country off from the Union &apos;s easternmost border in Poland .
Although the job of maintaining Ukraine &apos;s democracy is primarily one for Ukrainians , the EU can help if it takes practical steps to reassure Ukrainians that they won &apos;t be cut off from the rest of Europe .
A generous visa regime and the use of regional development funds in Ukraine that will benefit impoverished eastern Poland , are two possible inducements .
But these should be made conditional on Kuchma leaving the country &apos;s constitution and democracy alone .
The EU should not fret about interfering in Ukraine &apos;s domestic affairs .
After all , it hesitated little a few years ago to put a current member state , Austria , on notice that it was watching out for the welfare of that country &apos;s democracy .
The wayward Kuchma is far more deserving of Europe imposing safeguards to ensure his good behavior .
Similarly , the US should cast a wary eye at Kuchma &apos;s decision to send troops to Iraq .
It cannot be the case that America &apos;s fidelity to democracy in Ukraine can be so cynically purchased .
Within Ukraine , a government capable of truly governing should seek to adopt EU laws and norms in exactly the manner that the countries poised to join the Union have done , thus helping to clean up the murky system in which Kuchma &apos;s criminal cronies flourish .
The constitution must be reformed , but not to shift power from one unaccountable leader to another .
What is needed are clear checks on arbitrary rule , and transparency in decision @-@ making .
No one should doubt that Kuchma intends to stay in power , no matter what .
Less certain is whether he will feel secure enough to hold a presidential election ( or any other kind of election ) if he cannot change the constitution in a way that guarantees his continued misrule .
It is , after all , President Kuchma who is discredited , not Ukraine &apos;s constitutional arrangements .
A Contagion of Bad Ideas
NEW YORK - The Great Recession of 2008 has morphed into the North Atlantic Recession : it is mainly Europe and the United States , not the major emerging markets , that have become mired in slow growth and high unemployment .
And it is Europe and America that are marching , alone and together , to the denouement of a grand debacle .
A busted bubble led to a massive Keynesian stimulus that averted a much deeper recession , but that also fueled substantial budget deficits .
The response - massive spending cuts - ensures that unacceptably high levels of unemployment ( a vast waste of resources and an oversupply of suffering ) will continue , possibly for years .
The European Union has finally committed itself to helping its financially distressed members .
It had no choice : with financial turmoil threatening to spread from small countries like Greece and Ireland to large ones like Italy and Spain , the euro &apos;s very survival was in growing jeopardy .
Europe &apos;s leaders recognized that distressed countries &quot; debts would become unmanageable unless their economies could grow , and that growth could not be achieved without assistance .
But , even as Europe &apos;s leaders promised that help was on the way , they doubled down on the belief that non @-@ crisis countries must cut spending .
The resulting austerity will hinder Europe &apos;s growth , and thus that of its most distressed economies : after all , nothing would help Greece more than robust growth in its trading partners .
And low growth will hurt tax revenues , undermining the proclaimed goal of fiscal consolidation .
The discussions before the crisis illustrated how little had been done to repair economic fundamentals .
The European Central Bank &apos;s vehement opposition to what is essential to all capitalist economies - the restructuring of failed or insolvent entities &quot; debt - is evidence of the continuing fragility of the Western banking system .
The ECB argued that taxpayers should pick up the entire tab for Greece &apos;s bad sovereign debt , for fear that any private @-@ sector involvement ( PSI ) would trigger a &quot; credit event , &quot; which would force large payouts on credit @-@ default swaps ( CDSs ) , possibly fueling further financial turmoil .
But , if that is a real fear for the ECB - if it is not merely acting on behalf of private lenders - surely it should have demanded that the banks have more capital .
Likewise , the ECB should have barred banks from the risky CDS market , where they are held hostage to ratings agencies &quot; decisions about what constitutes a &quot; credit event . &quot;
Indeed , one positive achievement by European leaders at the recent Brussels summit was to begin the process of reining in both the ECB and the power of the American ratings agencies .
Indeed , the most curious aspect of the ECB &apos;s position was its threat not to accept restructured government bonds as collateral if the ratings agencies decided that the restructuring should be classified as a credit event .
The whole point of restructuring was to discharge debt and make the remainder more manageable .
If the bonds were acceptable as collateral before the restructuring , surely they were safer after the restructuring , and thus equally acceptable .
This episode serves as a reminder that central banks are political institutions , with a political agenda , and that independent central banks tend to be captured ( at least &quot; cognitively &quot; ) by the banks that they are supposed to regulate .
And matters are little better on the other side of the Atlantic .
There , the extreme right threatened to shut down the US government , confirming what game theory suggests : when those who are irrationally committed to destruction if they don &apos;t get their way confront rational individuals , the former prevail .
As a result , President Barack Obama acquiesced in an unbalanced debt @-@ reduction strategy , with no tax increases - not even for the millionaires who have done so well during the past two decades , and not even by eliminating tax giveaways to oil companies , which undermine economic efficiency and contribute to environmental degradation .
Optimists argue that the short run macroeconomic impact of the deal to raise America &apos;s debt ceiling and prevent sovereign default will be limited - roughly $ 25 billion in expenditure cuts in the coming year .
But the payroll @-@ tax cut ( which put more than $ 100 billion into the pockets of ordinary Americans ) was not renewed , and surely business , anticipating the contractionary effects down the line , will be even more reluctant to lend .
The end of the stimulus itself is contractionary .
And , with housing prices continuing to fall , GDP growth faltering , and unemployment remaining stubbornly high ( one of six Americans who would like a full @-@ time job still cannot get one ) , more stimulus , not austerity , is needed - for the sake of balancing the budget as well .
The single most important driver of deficit growth is weak tax revenues , owing to poor economic performance ; the single best remedy would be to put America back to work .
The recent debt deal is a move in the wrong direction .
There has been much concern about financial contagion between Europe and America .
After all , America &apos;s financial mismanagement played an important role in triggering Europe &apos;s problems , and financial turmoil in Europe would not be good for the US - especially given the fragility of the US banking system and the continuing role it plays in non @-@ transparent CDSs .
But the real problem stems from another form of contagion : bad ideas move easily across borders , and misguided economic notions on both sides of the Atlantic have been reinforcing each other .
The same will be true of the stagnation that those policies bring .
A Cool Calculus of Global Warming
The British government recently issued the most comprehensive study to date of the economic costs and risks of global warming , and of measures that might reduce greenhouse gas emissions , in the hope of averting some of the direst consequences .
Written under the leadership of Sir Nicholas Stern of the London School of Economics , who succeeded me as Chief Economist of the World Bank , the report makes clear that the question is no longer whether we can afford to do anything about global warming , but whether we can afford not to .
The report proposes an agenda whose cost would be equivalent to just 1 % of annual consumption , but would save the world risk equivalent costs that are five times greater .
The reported costs of global warming are higher than in earlier studies because it takes into account the mounting evidence that the process of global warming is highly complex and non @-@ linear , with a non @-@ negligible chance that it may proceed much faster than had previously been thought and that the extent of warming may be much greater than had previously been thought .
Indeed , the study may actually significantly underestimate the costs : for instance , climate change may lead to more weather variability , a possible disappearance or major shift of the Gulf Stream - of particular concern to Europe - and a flourishing of disease .
When I served in 1995 on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change , the scientific group that periodically assesses the science of global warming , there was overwhelming evidence that the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere had increased markedly since the beginning of the industrial revolution , that human activity had contributed significantly to those increases , and that they would have profound effects on climate and sea levels .
But few saw , for instance , the Artic ice cap melting as rapidly as now seems to be the case .
Still , some suggest that because we are not certain about how bad global warming will be , we should do little or nothing .
To me , uncertainty should make us act more resolutely today , not less .
As one scientist friend puts it : if you are driving on a mountain road , approaching a cliff , in a car whose brakes may fail , and a fog bank rolls in , should you drive more or less cautiously ?
Global warming is one of those rare instances where the scientific community is more fearful of what may be happening than the population at large .
Scientists have glimpsed what the future may portend .
As the Stern report points out , as usual , the poor are the most vulnerable .
A third of Bangladesh will be underwater by the end of this century .
The Maldives and a host of Pacific Island states will disappear : our twenty @-@ first @-@ century Atlantis .
To an economist , the problem is obvious : polluters are not paying the full costs of the damage they cause .
Pollution is a global externality of enormous proportions .
The advanced countries might mean Bangladesh and the disappearing island states no harm , but no war could be more devastating .
A global externality can best be dealt with by a globally agreed tax rate .
This does not mean an increase in overall taxation , but simply a substitution in each country of a pollution ( carbon ) tax for some current taxes .
It makes much more sense to tax things that are bad , like pollution , than things that are good , like savings and work .
Although President George W. Bush says he believes in markets , in this case he has called for voluntary action .
But it makes far more sense to use the force of markets - the power of incentives - than to rely on goodwill , especially when it comes to oil companies that regard their sole objective as maximizing profits , regardless of the cost to others .
Exxon has reportedly been funding so @-@ called think tanks to undermine confidence in the science of global warming , just as the tobacco industry funded &quot; research &quot; to question the validity of statistical findings showing the link between smoking and cancer .
Some companies even seem to celebrate the melting of the polar ice cap , because it will reduce the cost of extracting the oil that lies beneath the Arctic Ocean .
The good news is that there are many ways by which improved incentives could reduce emissions - partly by eliminating the myriad of subsidies for inefficient usages .
The US subsidizes corn @-@ based ethanol , and imposes tariffs on sugar @-@ based ethanol ; hidden in the tax code are billions of dollars of subsidies to the oil and gas industries .
Most importantly , price signals that show the true social costs of energy derived from fossil fuels will encourage innovation and conservation .
Small changes in practices , when replicated by hundreds of millions of people , can make an enormous difference .
For example , simply changing the color of roofs in warm climates to reflect sunlight or planting trees around houses can lead to great savings on energy used for air conditioning .
We have but one planet , and should treasure it .
Global warming is a risk that we simply cannot afford to ignore anymore .
A Crisis in Two Narratives
CHICAGO - With the world &apos;s industrial democracies in crisis , two competing narratives of its sources - and appropriate remedies - are emerging .
The first , better @-@ known diagnosis is that demand has collapsed because of high debt accumulated prior to the crisis .
Households ( and countries ) that were most prone to spend cannot borrow any more .
To revive growth , others must be encouraged to spend - governments that can still borrow should run larger deficits , and rock @-@ bottom interest rates should discourage thrifty households from saving .
Under these circumstances , budgetary recklessness is a virtue , at least in the short term .
In the medium term , once growth revives , debt can be paid down and the financial sector curbed so that it does not inflict another crisis on the world .
This narrative - the standard Keynesian line , modified for a debt crisis - is the one to which most government officials , central bankers , and Wall Street economists have subscribed , and needs little elaboration .
Its virtue is that it gives policymakers something clear to do , with promised returns that match the political cycle .
Unfortunately , despite past stimulus , growth is still tepid , and it is increasingly difficult to find sensible new spending that can pay off in the short run .
Attention is therefore shifting to the second narrative , which suggests that the advanced economies &quot; fundamental capacity to grow by making useful things has been declining for decades , a trend that was masked by debt @-@ fueled spending .
More such spending will not return these countries to a sustainable growth path .
Instead , they must improve the environment for growth .
The second narrative starts with the 1950 &quot; s and 1960 &quot; s , an era of rapid growth in the West and Japan .
Several factors , including post @-@ war reconstruction , the resurgence of trade after the protectionist 1930 &quot; s , the introduction of new technologies in power , transport , and communications across countries , and expansion of educational attainment , underpinned the long boom .
But , as Tyler Cowen has argued in his book The Great Stagnation , once these &quot; low @-@ hanging fruit &quot; were plucked , it became much harder to propel growth from the 1970 &quot; s onward .
Meanwhile , as Wolfgang Streeck writes persuasively in New Left Review , democratic governments , facing what seemed , in the 1960 &quot; s , like an endless vista of innovation and growth , were quick to expand the welfare state .
But , when growth faltered , this meant that government spending expanded , even as its resources shrank .
For a while , central banks accommodated that spending .
The resulting high inflation created widespread discontent , especially because little growth resulted .
Faith in Keynesian stimulus diminished , though high inflation did reduce public @-@ debt levels .
Central banks then began to focus on low and stable inflation as their primary objective , and became more independent from their political masters .
But deficit spending by governments continued apace , and public debt as a share of GDP in industrial countries climbed steadily from the late 1970 &quot; s , this time without inflation to reduce its real value .
Recognizing the need to find new sources of growth , towards the end of Jimmy Carter &apos;s presidency , and then under Ronald Reagan , the United States deregulated industry and the financial sector , as did Margaret Thatcher in the United Kingdom .
Productivity growth increased substantially in these countries over time , which persuaded Continental Europe to adopt reforms of its own , often pushed by the European Commission .
Yet even this growth was not enough , given previous governments &quot; generous promises of health care and pensions - promises made even less tenable by rising life expectancy and falling birth rates .
Public debt continued to grow .
And the incomes of the moderately educated middle class failed to benefit from deregulation @-@ led growth ( though it improved their lot as consumers ) .
The most recent phase of the advanced economies &quot; frenzied search for growth took different forms .
In some countries , most notably the US , a private @-@ sector credit boom created jobs in low @-@ skilled industries like construction , and precipitated a consumption boom as people borrowed against overvalued houses .
In other countries , like Greece , as well as under regional administrations in Italy and Spain , a government @-@ led hiring spree created secure jobs for the moderately educated .
In this &quot; fundamental &quot; narrative , the advanced countries &quot; pre @-@ crisis GDP was unsustainable , bolstered by borrowing and unproductive make @-@ work jobs .
More borrowed growth - the Keynesian formula - may create the illusion of normalcy , and may be useful in the immediate aftermath of a deep crisis to calm a panic , but it is no solution to a fundamental growth problem .
If this diagnosis is correct , advanced countries need to focus on reviving innovation and productivity growth over the medium term , and on realigning welfare promises with revenue capacity , while alleviating the pain of the truly destitute in the short run .
For example , Southern Europe &apos;s growth potential may consist in deregulating service sectors and reducing employment protection to spur creation of more private @-@ sector jobs for retrenched government workers and unemployed youth .
In the US , the imperative is to improve the match between potential jobs and worker skills .
People understand better than the government what they need and are acting accordingly .
Many women , for example , are leaving low @-@ paying jobs to acquire skills that will open doors to higher @-@ paying positions .
Too little government attention has been focused on such issues , partly because payoffs occur beyond electoral horizons , and partly because the effectiveness of government programs has been mixed .
Tax reform , however , can provide spur retraining and maintain incentives to work , even while fixing gaping fiscal holes .
Three powerful forces , one hopes , will help to create more productive jobs in the future : better use of information and communications technology ( and new ways to make it pay ) , lower @-@ cost energy as alternative sources are harnessed , and sharply rising demand in emerging markets for higher @-@ value @-@ added goods .
The advanced countries have a choice .
They can act as if all is well , except that their consumers are in a funk , and that &quot; animal spirits &quot; must be revived through stimulus .
Or they can treat the crisis as a wake @-@ up call to fix what debt has papered over in the last few decades .
For better or worse , the narrative that persuades these countries &quot; governments and publics will determine their future - &amp; nbsp ; and that of the global economy .
A Crisis of Trust
LONDON - Public trust in financial institutions , and in the authorities that are supposed to regulate them , was an early casualty of the financial crisis .
That is hardly surprising , as previously revered firms revealed that they did not fully understand the very instruments they dealt in or the risks they assumed .
It is difficult not to take some private pleasure in this comeuppance for the Masters of the Universe .
But , unfortunately , if this loss of trust persists , it could be costly for us all .
As Ralph Waldo Emerson remarked , &quot; Our distrust is very expensive . &quot; The Nobel laureate Kenneth Arrow made the point in economic terms almost 40 years ago : &quot; It can be plausibly argued that much of the economic backwardness in the world can be explained by the lack of mutual confidence . &quot;
Indeed , much economic research has demonstrated a powerful relationship between the level of trust in a community and its aggregate economic performance .
Without mutual trust , economic activity is severely constrained .
Even within Europe , there is powerful evidence that countries where mutual trust is higher achieve higher levels of investment , particularly through venture capital investment , and are prepared to use more flexible contracts , which are also beneficial for growth and investment .
So if it is true that trust in financial institutions - and in the governments that oversee them - has been damaged by the crisis , we should care a lot , and we should be devising responses which seek to rebuild that trust .
In fact , the evidence for a crisis of trust is rather difficult to interpret .
In the United Kingdom , recent survey results are ambiguous .
Surveys promoted by financial firms tend to show that trust in them has not diminished much , and that people continue to trust them even more than they do the National Health Service or the BBC .
Surveys promoted by the BBC tend to show the reverse .
Banks quote statistics to show that they are more trusted than supermarkets , whereas supermarkets cite evidence that the opposite is true , and are expanding into financial services in the belief that the public will trust them more than they trust the banks , which have had to be expensively bailed out by the government .
The market will prove one side right before too long .
In the United States , there is now a more systematic , independent survey promoted by economists at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business .
Their financial trust index , based on a large @-@ scale survey of financial decision @-@ makers in American households , did show a sharp fall in trust in late 2008 and early 2009 , following the collapse of Lehman Brothers .
That fall in confidence affected banks , the stock market , and the government and its regulators .
Furthermore , the survey showed that declining trust was strongly correlated with financial behavior .
In other words , if your trust in the market and in the way it is regulated fell sharply , you were less likely to deposit money in banks or invest in stocks .
So falling trust had real economic consequences .
Fortunately , the latest survey , published in July this year , shows that trust in banks and bankers has begun to recover , and quite sharply .
This has been positive for the stock market .
There is also a little more confidence in the government &apos;s response and in financial regulation than there was at the end of last year .
The latter point , which no doubt reflects the Obama administration &apos;s attempts to reform the dysfunctional system it inherited , is particularly important , as the sharpest declines in investment intentions were among those who had lost confidence in the government &apos;s ability to regulate .
It would seem that rebuilding confidence in the Federal Reserve and the Securities and Exchange Commission is economically more important than rebuilding trust in Citibank or AIG .
Continuing disputes in Congress about the precise details of reform could , therefore , have an economic cost if a perception that the system will not be overhauled gains ground .
All these data are at an aggregate level and reflect average views among voters and investors .
Yet we also know that individual views are remarkably heterogeneous .
Some people are very trusting of others , and of the firms and institutions with which they do business .
Others are congenitally distrustful .
Researchers at the European University Institute in Florence and UCLA recently demonstrated that there is a relationship between trust and individuals &quot; income .
A pan @-@ European opinion survey , which has been carried out for many years , allows us to relate the two .
It asks simple but powerful questions about how far individuals are inclined to trust those with whom they deal .
The data show , intriguingly , that those who show levels of trust well below the average for the country they live in are likely to have lower incomes .
Is that just because low @-@ income people feel that life is unfair and therefore distrust those around them ?
It would seem not , as it is also true that very trusting people also have lower incomes than the average .
In other words , if you diverge markedly from society &apos;s average level of trust , you are likely to lose out , either because you are so distrustful of others that you miss out on opportunities for investment and mutually beneficial exchange , or because you are so trusting that you leave yourself open to being cheated and abused .
When anyone I don &apos;t know says &quot; trust me &quot; - an irritating conversational tic - I usually close my wallet .
Perhaps most academics , who are at the lower end of the skill and qualification @-@ adjusted income scale , do the same .
Maybe we should trust each other more - but not too much .
A Crisis of Understanding
NEW HAVEN - Few economists predicted the current economic crisis , and there is little agreement among them about its ultimate causes .
So , not surprisingly , economists are not in a good position to forecast how quickly it will end , either .
Of course , we all know the proximate causes of an economic crisis : people are not spending , because their incomes have fallen , their jobs are insecure , or both .
But we can take it a step further back : people &apos;s income is lower and their jobs are insecure because they were not spending a short time ago - and so on , backwards in time , in a repeating feedback loop .
It is a vicious circle , but where and why did it start ?
Why did it worsen ?
What will reverse it ?
It is to these questions that economists have been unable to offer clear answers .
The state of economic knowledge was just as bad in the Great Depression that followed the 1929 stock market crash .
Economists did not predict that event , either .
In the 1920 &quot; s , some warned about an overpriced stock market , but they did not predict a decade @-@ long depression affecting the entire economy .
Late in the Great Depression , in August 1938 , an article by Ralph M. Blagden in
The causes given were &quot; distributed widely among government , labor , industry , international politics and policies . &quot;
They included misguided government interference with markets , high income and capital gains taxes , mistaken monetary policy , pressures towards high wages , monopoly , overstocked inventories , uncertainty caused by the reorganization plan for the Supreme Court , rearmament in Europe and fear of war , government encouragement of labor disputes , a savings glut because of population shrinkage , the passing of the frontier , and easy credit before the depression .
Although economic theory today is much improved , if we ask people about the cause of the current crisis , we will mostly get the same answers . We would certainly hear some new ones , too : unprecedented real @-@ estate bubbles , a global savings glut , international trade imbalances , exotic financial contracts , sub @-@ prime mortgages , unregulated over @-@ the @-@ counter markets , rating agencies &quot; errors , compromised real @-@ estate appraisals , and complacency about counterparty risk .
More likely than not , many or most of these people would be mostly or partly right , for the economic crisis was caused by a confluence of many factors , the chance co @-@ occurrence of a lot of bad things , which pushed the financial system beyond its breaking point .
At that point , the trouble grabbed widespread attention , destroyed public confidence , and set in motion a negative feedback loop .
Our attention , after all , is naturally drawn to the worst events .
Consider the question of predicting events like the January 2010 earthquake in Haiti , which killed more than 200,000 people .
It captured our attention because it was so bad in terms of lives and property damage .
But if one went beyond trying to predict the occurrence of earthquakes to predicting the extent of the damage , one could surely devise a long list of contributing factors - including even political , financial , and insurance factors - that resembles the list of factors that caused the global economic crisis .
Indeed , the crisis knows no end to the list of its causes . For , in a complicated economic system that feeds back on itself in many ways , events that start a vicious cycle might be as seemingly trivial as the proverbial butterfly in the Amazon , which , by flapping its wings , sets off a chain of events that eventually results in a far @-@ away hurricane .
Chaos theory in mathematics explains such dependency on remote and seemingly trivial initial conditions , and explains why even the extrapolation of apparently precise planetary motion becomes impossible when taken far enough into the future .
Weather forecasters cannot forecast far into the future , either , but at least they have precise mathematical models .
Massive parallel computers are programmed to yield numerical solutions of differential equations derived from the theory of fluid dynamics and thermodynamics . &amp; nbsp ; Scientists appear to know the mechanism that generates weather , even if it is inherently difficult to extrapolate very far .
The problem for macroeconomics is that the types of causes mentioned for the current crisis are difficult to systematize .
The mathematical models that macroeconomists have may resemble weather models in some respects , but their structural integrity is not guaranteed by anything like a solid , immutable theory .
The most important new book about the origins of the economic crisis , Carmen Reinhart &apos;s and Kenneth Rogoff &apos;s
This leaves us trying to use patterns from past , dissimilar crises to try to infer the likely prognosis for the current crisis .
As a result , we simply do not know if the recovery will be solid or disappointing .
A Cure for Fiscal Failure ?
CAMBRIDGE - Should more countries create independent fiscal advisory councils to infuse greater objectivity into national budget debates ?
Jailed swindler Bernie Madoff recently summed up a lot of people &apos;s feelings about fiscal policy , declaring that &quot; the whole government is a Ponzi scheme . &quot;
Perhaps this was just wishful thinking from a man who will die in prison after his own record @-@ breaking $ 50 billion pyramid scheme collapsed in 2008 .
Personally , I suspect Madoff &apos;s unenviable place in the record books will be secure for quite a while .
Still , with many of the world &apos;s largest governments facing a lethal combination of unsustainable conventional debt , unprecedented old @-@ age pension obligations , and a downshift in growth , one has to wonder what the fiscal plan is .
In a new paper , &quot; A Decade of Debt , &quot; Carmen M. Reinhart and I show that general government debt in the United States , including federal , state , and local debt , has now surpassed the record 120 % of GDP reached at the end of World War II .
Japan , of course , is in even worse shape , with government debt totaling more than 200 % of GDP .
Though this is partially offset by foreign @-@ exchange reserves , Japan now faces massive disaster @-@ relief costs - and this on top of its depressing demographic trends .
Many other rich countries &quot; debt levels are also uncomfortably close to 150 @-@ year highs , despite relative peace in much of the world .
There is a no easy way out .
For now , low world interest rates are restraining debt @-@ service costs , but debt levels can be reduced only very gradually over long periods , whereas real ( inflation @-@ adjusted ) interest rates can rise far more quickly , even for rich countries .
Debt crises tend to come out of the blue , hitting countries whose debt trajectories simply have no room for error or unplanned adversity .
The single most immediate and direct impact of having an independent fiscal policy would be to reign in spending by producing a counterpoint to Panglossian government growth and revenue forecasts .
In principle , an independent and respected advisory council could also force governments to acknowledge the hidden costs of government guarantees and off @-@ balance sheet debts .
It is high time to consider novel approaches .
Of course , no one simple change will eliminate the huge bias towards deficit spending in most modern political systems .
And no one simple change will preclude the risk of future debt and inflation crises .
Many countries require sweeping reforms to make their tax systems more efficient and their entitlement programs - including their pension schemes - more realistic .
The recent advent of fiscal advisory councils is a promising institutional start .
A number of countries , including Denmark , the Netherlands , the US , and Belgium , have long @-@ standing fiscal watchdog agencies , such as the US Congressional Budget Office ( CBO ) .
But , while these older institutions have proven enormously useful , they are typically quite constrained .
The CBO , for example , is free to issue long @-@ term fiscal projections based on its own best estimates of growth , but is largely forced to accept politically implausible future &quot; fixes &quot; at face value , somewhat neutralizing the potential effectiveness of any critique of deficit policies .
To enhance credibility , a number of governments are gingerly moving towards creating fiscal councils with greater independence , often with central banks as a role model .
The new vanguard includes councils in Sweden , the United Kingdom , Slovenia , and Canada .
The remit of Sweden &apos;s fiscal council is particularly broad , giving it a mandate not only to forecast , but also to look more deeply at the motivations and consequences of government policy .
In principle , an independent fiscal council could have provided invaluable help during the financial crisis .
In the US , such an agency could have weighed in on the costs and benefits of bailout plans , perhaps helping to end congressional paralysis and steeling nerves to give taxpayers more upside risk .
It is too much to expect that these new fiscal institutions will become as important or powerful as central banks , at least anytime soon .
There is far more consensus over monetary policy than over fiscal policy .
And fiscal policy is far more complex and multi @-@ dimensional .
Still , the general principle seems like an important step towards fiscal sanity .
Of course , fiscal councils by themselves are not enough , no matter how well designed they are .
It will remain very tempting for each generation to say , &quot; My grandchildren will be two or three times richer than I , so who cares if they have to pay some debt ? &quot; Moreover , the political cycle creates a very strong deficit bias , as leaders seek to embellish feelings of economic health and prosperity by raising visible expenditures at the cost of hidden debts and lower long @-@ term investment .
To resist these powerful pressures , fiscal councils will need to have their work audited periodically by international agencies such as the International Monetary Fund , both to protect their independence and to promote accountability .
To be sure , Bernie Madoff may yet be proved right , and his will not turn out to be the biggest Ponzi scheme ever .
But greater transparency and a more systematic independent evaluation of government policies could be a very helpful step towards solving the perpetual conundrum of outsized deficits .
It is certainly one of the more innovative and promising ideas to emerge from a rather barren policy landscape .
A Customs Union for the Balkans
The fall of Milosevic does not cure the political woes of the Balkans ; indeed , it raises their urgency .
Yugoslavia has disintegrated , but the disintegration is incomplete .
It was in Yugoslavia that Vojislav Kostunica was elected president , but his mandate comes solely from support in Serbia .
Montenegro , Serbia &apos;s junior partner in the Yugoslav federation , mostly boycotted the election while Albanians in Kosovo ignored them .
Yet it was Yugoslavia , whose foundations are unstable , that was recently admitted to the UN .
A host of problems remain unresolved : relations between Serbia and Montenegro and the status of Kosovo ( not to mention Serbia &apos;s northern province of Vojvodina ) .
Any resolution - any suggestion of change - will engender new conflicts because of conflicting claims of sovereignty .
However tempting it may be to solve the puzzle by drawing new borders or establishing new entities , this conundrum cannot be resolved in terms of sovereignty .
That traditional solution would only perpetuate the problems of the Balkans .
A new approach is needed : the European Union should use the prospect of European integration as the way to promote regional integration .
The EU could act as a magnet to bring the region closer together by bringing the region as a whole closer to Europe .
This idea has great appeal to people in the region , but only the EU can make it happen .
After NATO intervention in Kosovo , European leaders made this approach the cornerstone of their vision for the Balkans .
It was enshrined in the Stability Pact signed at the Sarajevo Summit of July , 1999 .
But the Stability Pact is merely a shell - it needs to be filled with content .
The time to do so is at the Zagreb Conference on November 24 called by France as the current EU president .
The European Union should now propose a three @-@ point plan for the Balkans :
$ a customs union with preferential access to EU markets within one year . The existing EU @-@ Turkey customs union should be used as a model .
Once all these countries reach agreement with the EU there would automatically be free trade throughout the Balkans .
This will take some time to implement .
But from the start , the EU should give a signal by unilaterally opening its border to imports from the region .
This cannot endanger any EU interests as the countries at issue now have far less than 1 % of the EU market .
$ a regional VAT to replace the lost customs revenues should be established within two years .
Differences in indirect taxes such as VAT pose another way in which borders become obstacles to trade .
They should be unified throughout the region .
Regional VAT rates might be increased slightly if expenditure restraint is not sufficient to offset the loss of tariff revenues due to the customs union .
$ Temporary budgetary support on a declining scale for three years , subject to EU supervision over budgetary expenditures .
Because it will take time to collect revenues from the regional VAT , the EU should provide financial help during the transition .
The area covered by this plan would include Bulgaria , Croatia and Albania as well as Serbia , Bosnia , Macedonia , Montenegro and Kosovo .
Participation by Romania and Moldova is optional .
Bulgaria and Croatia could be persuaded to participate provided it would not interfere with their candidacy for EU membership .
Depending on the country , there could be more or less budgetary support .
( Bulgaria , for example , might not need compensation since to a great extent it has already eliminated tariffs ) .
In comparison to the cost of military intervention and peacekeeping , the financial costs here are ridiculously low .
I estimate that Euro 750 million in the first year , Euro 500 million in the second year and Euro 250 million in the third year would do the trick .
( If Romania and Moldova were included the figures would be slightly higher ) .
These figures are well within range of pledges already made by the EU for the Stability Pact and they could be easily accommodated within the confines of the Berlin Accord on the EU budget for 2000 @-@ 2005 if EU member states agree to a reallocation of unspent funds .
Budgetary support in the context of a Customs Union would be a more effective way to disburse EU funds than conventional methods .
This three @-@ point program would lay the ground for economic resurgence .
It would remove two major sources of corruption and inefficiency : the customs service and the misuse of public funds in general .
It would create a trade area large enough to generate both local and foreign investment .
The Deutsche Mark , already widely used in the region , now functions as the de facto common currency .
Any ban on its use should be lifted to make borders irrelevant for trade and investment .
Improved economic prospects and the strengthening of institutions , in turn , would have a positive impact on the political climate throughout the Balkans .
Serbia has climbed part of the way out of the abyss .
Success in peacefully removing a tyrant has set in motion a process of national renewal .
But that process has a long way to go .
The opposition inherited a bankrupt country whose institutions are in ruins .
The population , frustrated by ever deepening impoverishment and isolation , is beginning to question what happened over the past decade in Serbia .
People are asking about crimes committed by the Milosevic regime against Serbs .
They must begin to come to terms with the crimes committed against others - in Croatia , Bosnia and Kosovo .
Once that process is underway , many problems that now seem intractable will be resolved more easily .
Kostunica &apos;s election as President of Yugoslavia amounts to an incomplete revolution : many of the old guard are still in place .
The momentum created by Milosevic &apos;s overthrow needs to be maintained .
Milosevic was overthrown in the hope of ending Serbia &apos;s isolation . Europe must now fulfill its promise .
If the French Presidency fails to seize the moment in Zagreb , an historic opportunity will be lost .
A Czech Moment
PRAGUE - As I listened to what some Europeans were saying as my country prepared to take over the presidency of the European Union , I heard dim echoes of Neville Chamberlain &apos;s infamous description of Czechoslovakia as &quot; a faraway country of which we know little . &quot; I suppose that Donald Rumsfeld &apos;s misguided bid a few years ago to incite a divide between &quot; new and old &quot; Europe contributed to the re @-@ emergence of that disdainful attitude .
The reality is that there is no such thing as &quot; old and new &quot; Europe , and there never was .
The break with communism and reunification of Europe is now almost two decades old .
We Czechs are 100 % European , and were even when the Iron Curtain cut us off from democratic Europe .
Indeed , our pro @-@ EU sentiments may be all the stronger because our membership in the Union , like our freedom , is so comparatively new .
So no one in Europe needs to fear that the Czech Republic has some nostalgic or idiosyncratic agenda that it wants to impose on the Union .
On the contrary , events have imposed an agenda on Europe that we cannot escape and for which solidarity - true union - will be needed .
The primary , and most pressing , of the problems we face is the financial and economic crisis that is enveloping the EU .
Unfortunately , conditions across the Union will likely worsen before they begin to improve .
The type of social unrest recently witnessed in Greece may spread , because the downturn is likely to take a disproportionate toll on Europe &apos;s young people , who are seeking jobs at a time when hard @-@ pressed European businesses will be able to offer them very few .
It will fall to the Union , once again , to help transform despair into hope .
We Czechs know something about this , as the wrenching economic transition that we underwent in the 1990 &quot; s taught us much about how the right policies can break the grip of hopelessness .
To contain today &apos;s financial and economic crisis , Europe will also need to continue the cooperation that it has shown up to this point .
The very existence of our Union , and particularly of the euro , has already helped to prevent the competitive devaluations and beggar @-@ thy @-@ neighbor policies that ravaged Europe during the 1930 &quot; s - the last time the continent faced so brutal an economic downturn .
But we cannot be complacent that the forces of national egoism will remain in check .
For now , EU governments &quot; coordinated fiscal stimulus has deprived populists of their usual charge that the EU is indifferent to the fate of individuals .
Even more policy coordination will be needed both to confront the crisis and to re @-@ establish EU norms once the storm clouds begin to dissipate .
Although it is right that the Stability and Growth Pact has become more flexible in these extraordinary times , its rules did secure a successful first decade for the euro .
These rules must eventually be restored intact if Europe is to return to the path of sustainable growth , and a consensus will need to be forged now to make that happen .
The second key challenge that we will face during our European presidency is that of Russia .
A new Partnership and Cooperation Agreement ( PCA ) between the EU and the Russian Federation must be negotiated .
Those negotiations should have begun seriously last year , but the war in Georgia intervened to put them on hold .
Now those talks have resumed , but the background to the negotiations has changed dramatically .
Russia &apos;s economy is now in far worse shape than that of EU members .
The collapse of world oil and gas prices has wounded Russia &apos;s budget , and lack of investment in the country &apos;s energy sector over the years is now causing the declining production that economists have long predicted .
Until now , Russia has cared less about a new PCA than the EU , because two @-@ thirds of Russia &apos;s exports to the Union comprise natural resources , which bring in cash even without the strong rules that a PCA provides .
Given the stark changes in economic conditions , however , it is now in Russia &apos;s national interest to reassure international markets that it is a reliable place to do business , for which a new PCA would serve as an ideal signal .
Moreover , without a new PCA , individual European countries may feel it necessary to seek even more bilateral agreements with Russia .
Indeed , many EU members have been in a race with each other to see who will be Russia &apos;s closest friend in the Union .
But the bilateral deals that have emerged from this race sometimes come at the expense of other Union members , and may unbalance relations within the Union as a whole . Only a rules @-@ based EU framework can provide a firm foundation for both bilateral and Union @-@ wide relations with Russia .
Europe &apos;s main strength in foreign policy is not its commitment to a rules @-@ based multilateralism , important as that undoubtedly is , but its unity .
When the Georgia crisis erupted , Europe united around a single position on Russia &apos;s withdrawal .
It is the Czech Republic &apos;s task , and that of the Swedish EU presidency that will follow our own , to maintain this unity as the PCA negotiations move forward .
During the 1990 &quot; s , the US and Europe erred in treating Russia with benign neglect . It would be a mistake for Russia to respond in kind today by seeking to prolong the PCA negotiations in the hope that a possibly more amenable EU president may one day offer softer terms .
We , like all EU presidencies , will be representing the wider Union interests when we negotiate .
A Day for Planetary Justice
PRINCETON - What we are doing to our planet , to our children and grandchildren , and to the poor , by our heedless production of greenhouse gases , is one of the great moral wrongs of our age .
On October 24 , you can stand up against this injustice .
October 24 is 350 Day .
The name comes from the number of parts per million of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere that , according to Jim Hansen , perhaps the world &apos;s leading climate scientist , we should not exceed if we are to avoid potentially catastrophic climate change .
It is a measure of the seriousness of our problem that CO2 is already at 386 ppm , and is rising by two ppm each year .
The need to cut greenhouse gases has become increasingly clear as predictions of global warming - denounced as &quot; alarmist &quot; when they were first made just a few years ago - have repeatedly turned out to have been too conservative .
We are approaching a point of no return , at which feedback loops will kick in and continue to warm the planet , no matter what we do .
The melting of arctic ice is one example .
Four hundred years ago , explorers sought the legendary &quot; Northeast Passage &quot; across the north of Europe and Russia to China .
They found the arctic ice impenetrable , and soon gave up their quest .
This year , commercial vessels successfully navigated the Northeast Passage .
That is one of many recent dramatic signs that our climate is changing and that our planet is warmer than it has been for a very long time .
But ice @-@ free arctic waters are more than a symptom of global warming .
They are themselves a cause of further warming : ice and snow reflect the sun &apos;s rays .
An ice @-@ free surface absorbs more warmth from the sun than one covered in snow or ice . In other words , our greenhouse gas emissions have , by causing enough warming to melt the arctic ice , created a feedback loop that will generate more warming , and melt more ice , even if we were to stop emitting all greenhouse gases tomorrow .
Other feedback loops pose a similar danger .
In Siberia , vast quantities of methane , an extremely potent greenhouse gas , are locked up in what used to be called &quot; permafrost &quot; - regions in which it was assumed that the ground was permanently frozen .
But areas that used to be frozen are now thawing , releasing methane and thus contributing to further warming - and to further thawing , which releases more methane .
Developing nations are grasping just how outrageous the current distribution of greenhouse @-@ gas emissions really is .
At the United Nations Summit on Climate Change in September , President Paul Kagame of Rwanda pointed out that , while developed nations outside Africa are almost entirely responsible for the problem , its greatest impact will probably be on Africa , which has few resources to cope with the challenge .
Kagame then suggested giving every country an annual per capita quota for CO2 emissions , and allowing developing countries that are below the quota to trade their excess quota with countries that are above theirs .
The money that developing countries would receive for this would not be aid , but rather a recognition that the rich nations must pay for something that in the past they simply appropriated : far more than their fair share of our atmosphere &apos;s capacity to absorb our waste gases .
Sri Lanka took a similar stance , using studies from the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to calculate that in 2008 , environmentally permissible carbon emissions totaled no more than 2,172 kilograms per person . In fact , the world &apos;s per capita emissions were 4,700 kilograms , or more than double the permissible limit .
But , while emissions in the rich nations were far above the permissible limit , Sri Lankan emissions were , at 660 kilograms , well below it .
As Sri Lanka &apos;s government pointed out , &quot; That means low @-@ emitting countries like us could not emit more because our space has already been exploited by developed or global heavy polluting countries without our consent . &quot;
This situation is an injustice of vast proportions , reminiscent of - and arguably much worse than - the now @-@ repudiated colonialism of the Western powers in the nineteenth century .
The task of remedying it must begin at the meeting on climate change that will be held in Copenhagen in December .
Many political leaders have expressed support for strong action on climate change , but what most of them regard as &quot; strong action &quot; will not be enough to get us back below 350 ppm .
In some countries , including the United States , there are major political obstacles to taking even modest steps .
On October 24 , people in nearly every country will be taking action to raise awareness of the need for an international treaty to bring our atmosphere back to 350 ppm of CO2 .
There will be climbers hanging banners high in the Himalayas , where the glaciers are melting , and scuba divers at Australia &apos;s Great Barrier Reef , which is threatened by climate change .
Churches will ring bells 350 times , 350 cyclists will circle towns , and , in many places , 350 trees will be planted . At
A Day of Liberation
When I was seven years old , in 1960 , my grandmother Angelica opened my eyes to the meaning of 8 May 1945 , the day when Nazi Germany surrendered and World War II ended in Europe .
We were spending our summer holidays in Normandy where the liberation of Europe from Nazism had started on D @-@ Day , 6 June 1944 .
One evening , I listened to my parents and my grandmother talking about the past .
I have forgotten the details of their conversation , but I can still hear my grandmother &apos;s sigh of relief when she said &quot; Thank God we lost that war ! &quot;
From a child &apos;s perspective , it wasn &apos;t self @-@ evident that losing was a good thing .
But of course , my grandmother was right to equate defeat with liberation .
The more I have thought about the lesson she taught me 45 years ago , the clearer I have seen another , less obvious dimension in what she said : It is &quot; we &quot; who lost the war .
Collectively , the Germans had not been the innocent victims of a small gang of criminal outsiders called &quot; Nazis &quot; - Nazism had been an inside ideology supported by millions of Germans , and every German was liable for its atrocities whether or not he or she had adhered to it individually .
In today &apos;s Germany , an overwhelming majority subscribes to the proposition that 8 May 1945 was a day of liberation - not only for Europe , but also for Germany itself .
Compared to public opinion in 1960 , that &apos;s certainly an enormous progress .
But paradoxically , it may also contain an element of forgetfulness , because it tends to conceal the fact that liberation required a military defeat .
To use my grandmother &apos;s parlance , it is not &quot; us &quot; who were the liberators , but &quot; them . &quot;
The way people see the past tells us more about their present attitudes than about the past itself .
This is what the term &quot; politics of memory &quot; is meant to indicate .
And this is why it doesn &apos;t matter whether the relevant events happened 60 years ago ( as World War II ) , 90 years ( as in the case of the Armenian genocide ) or even 600 years ( such as the battle of Kosovo in 1389 ) .
A violent conflict in the past may survive as a war of memories in the present , as can be observed in the current dispute between China and South Korea on one side , and Japan on the other .
A war of memories , in turn , may sometimes lead to a violent conflict in the future .
Former perpetrators often try to de @-@ legitimize their former victims &quot; moral superiority by claiming they were victims themselves .
Therefore , the 60th anniversary of the firebombing of Dresden by Allied forces on 13 February 1945 has probably been a more crucial moment in terms of the German &quot; politics of memory &quot; than the 60th anniversary of 8 May 1945 is going to be .
Far @-@ right groups infamously dubbed the attack by which at least 30,000 people were killed &quot; Dresden &apos;s Holocaust of bombs . &quot;
Fortunately , their propaganda campaign has been a failure .
Although it is true that thousands of the civilians killed in Dresden and other German cities were innocent at an individual level , there can be no doubt it was morally imperative that Germany be defeated collectively .
On the left side of the German political spectrum , the proposition that 8 May 1945 was a day of liberation remains unchallenged .
However , it is sometimes repressed that the massive use of force had been necessary to achieve that result .
Left @-@ wing pacifism tends to overlook this simple fact .
Its slogan &quot; Never again war ! &quot; is only half the truth - the other half is &quot; Never again appeasement ! &quot; 8 May 1945 was not &quot; zero hour , &quot; as a popular saying in Germany goes .
It had an antecedent , that is , a lack of pre @-@ emptive resistance at home and abroad to the threat that built up in Nazi Germany during the 1930 &quot; s .
There is yet another lesson to be learned .
Yes , 8 May 1945 was a day of liberation to which the Soviet army contributed decisively .
But for millions of Central and East Europeans , liberation was followed by Stalin &apos;s oppressive regime .
The current war of memories between the Baltic republics and Russia , with regard to the international celebration in Moscow on 9 May this year , reminds Germany of a special historic responsibility .
The German @-@ Soviet non @-@ aggression treaty , the so @-@ called Hitler @-@ Stalin pact , concluded in August 1939 , had been supplemented by a secret appendix dividing the border states Finland , Estonia , Latvia , Lithuania , Poland and Romania into spheres of interest for the two parties .
But excusing Nazi atrocities by pointing to Stalinist crimes is an intellectually and morally unacceptable stratagem .
When Chancellor Schröder travels to Moscow for the Red Square celebrations , he should bear in mind Nazi Germany &apos;s contribution to the Baltic tragedy .
On 8 May this year , public speakers will remind us how important it is not to forget .
They will stress that if the lessons of history are not learned , history is bound to repeat itself .
All this is perfectly true .
But personally , I will also remember my grandmother &apos;s sentence &quot; Thank God we lost that war ! &quot; Thank God - and thanks to all those brave Allied soldiers who sacrificed their lives for the sake of Europe &apos;s liberty .
A De @-@ Globalized World ?
Cambridge - It may take a few months or a couple of years , but one way or another the United States and other advanced economies will eventually recover from today &apos;s crisis .
The world economy , however , is unlikely to look the same .
Even with the worst of the crisis over , we are likely to find ourselves in a somewhat de @-@ globalized world , one in which international trade grows at a slower pace , there is less external finance , and rich countries &quot; appetite for running large current @-@ account deficits is significantly diminished .
Will this spell doom for developing countries ?
Not necesarily .
Growth in the developing world tends to come in three distinct variants .
First comes growth driven by foreign borrowing .
Second is growth as a by @-@ product of commodity booms .
Third is growth led by economic restructuring and diversification into new products .
The first two models are at greater risk than the third .
But we should not lose sleep over them , because they are flawed and ultimately unsustainable .
What should be of greater concern is the potential plight of countries in the last group .
These countries will need to undertake major changes in their policies to adjust to today &apos;s new realities .
The first two growth models invariably come to a bad end .
Foreign borrowing can enable consumers and governments to live beyond their means for a while , but reliance on foreign capital is an unwise strategy .
The problem is not only that foreign capital flows can easily reverse direction , but also that they produce the wrong kind of growth , based on overvalued currencies and investments in non @-@ traded goods and services , such as housing and construction .
Growth driven by high commodity prices is also susceptible to busts , for similar reasons . Commodity prices tend to move in cycles .
When they are high , they are apt to crowd out investments in manufactures and other , non @-@ traditional tradables .
Moreover , commodity booms frequently produce ugly politics in countries with weak institutions , leading to costly struggles for resource rents , which are rarely invested wisely .
So it is no surprise that the countries that have produced steady , long @-@ term growth during the last six decades are those that relied on a different strategy : promoting diversification into manufactured and other &quot; modern &quot; goods .
By capturing a growing share of world markets for manufactures and other non @-@ primary products , these countries increased their domestic employment opportunities in high @-@ productivity activities .
Their governments pursued not just good &quot; fundamentals &quot; ( e.g. , macroeconomic stability and an outward orientation ) , but also what might be called &quot; productivist &quot; policies : undervalued currencies , industrial policies , and financial controls .
China exemplified this approach .
Its growth was fueled by an extraordinarily rapid structural transformation towards an increasingly sophisticated set of industrial goods .
In recent years , China also got hooked on a large trade surplus vis @-@ à @-@ vis the US - the counterpart of its undervalued currency .
But it wasn &apos;t just China .
Countries that had been growing rapidly in the run @-@ up to the great crash of 2008 typically had trade surpluses ( or very small deficits ) .
These countries did not want to be recipients of capital inflows , because they realized that this would wreak havoc with their need to maintain competitive currencies .
It is now part of conventional wisdom that large external balances - typified by the bilateral US @-@ China trade relationship - played a major contributing role in the great crash .
Global macroeconomic stability requires that we avoid such large current @-@ account imbalances in the future .
But a return to high growth in developing countries requires that they resume their push into tradable goods and services .
In the past , this push was accommodated by the willingness of the US and a few other developed nations to run large trade deficits .
This is no longer a feasible strategy for large or middle @-@ income developing countries .
So , are the requirements of global macroeconomic stability and of growth for developing countries at odds with each other ?
Will developing countries &quot; need to generate large increases in the supply of industrial products inevitably clash with the world &apos;s intolerance of trade imbalances ?
There is in fact no inherent conflict , once we understand that what matters for growth in developing countries is not the size of their trade surpluses , nor even the volume of their exports .
What matters is their output of modern industrial goods ( and services ) , which can expand without limit as long as domestic demand expands simultaneously .
Maintaining an undervalued currency has the upside that it subsidizes the production of such goods ; but it also has the downside that it taxes domestic consumption - which is why it generates a trade surplus .
By encouraging industrial production directly , it is possible to have the upside without the downside .
There are many ways that this can be done , including reducing the cost of domestic inputs and services through targeted investments in infrastructure .
Explicit industrial policies can be an even more potent instrument .
The key point is that developing countries that are concerned about the competitiveness of their modern sectors can afford to allow their currencies to appreciate ( in real terms ) as long as they have access to alternative policies that promote industrial activities more directly .
So the good news is that developing countries can continue to grow rapidly even if world trade slows in and there is reduced appetite for capital flows and trade imbalances .
Their growth potential need not be severely affected as long as the implications of this new world for domestic and international policies are understood .
One such implication is that developing countries will have to substitute real industrial policies for those that operate through the exchange rate .
Another is that external policy actors ( for example , the World Trade Organization ) will have to be more tolerant of these policies as long as the effects on trade balances are neutralized through appropriate adjustments in the real exchange rate .
Greater use of industrial policies is the price to be paid for a reduction of macroeconomic imbalances .
A Declaration of Independence from the US
George W. Bush is obsessed with the war on terrorism , especially with the military response to terrorism .
American foreign policy reflects that obsession .
This year , the US will spend around $ 450 billion for the military , including the costs of the Iraq War , while it will spend no more than $ 15 billion to overcome global poverty , global environmental degradation , and global diseases .
In other words , US foreign policy spending is thirty times more focused on the military than on building global prosperity , global public health , and a sustainable environment .
Throughout 2003 , the world lived with Bush &apos;s obsession .
Debate over Iraq dominated international diplomacy , and took up almost the entire UN agenda .
The war in Iraq cost countless innocent lives , such as when the UN headquarters in Baghdad was bombed .
At the same time , Bush &apos;s emphasis on a one @-@ dimensional , militarized approach to global problems has fueled unrest and instability throughout the Islamic world , leading to increased terrorism in Turkey , North Africa , Saudi Arabia , and Southeast Asia .
The nature of suffering around the world hardly justifies this narrow strategy .
Focusing on terrorism to the exclusion of other issues , and emphasizing the military response to it , will not bring prosperity and peace , or even a significant reduction in the number of attacks .
While 3,000 innocent people died in the US on September 11 , 2001 , in Africa 8,000 innocent children die every day from malaria .
Yet malaria is preventable and treatable .
The problem is that most of Africa is too poor to mobilize the methods of prevention ( bed nets ) and treatments ( anti @-@ malarial medicines ) that could save millions of children every year .
The US spends more on Iraq each day than it does on Africa &apos;s malaria in a year .
As 2003 draws to a close , it is time for world leaders to help guide the world away from the obsessive , failing approach of America &apos;s government .
President Bush should be made to understand that the US will find no true international support if America speaks incessantly about terrorism while doing almost nothing about the problems that really affect most of the world : poverty , lack of access to safe water and sanitation , vulnerability to disease , and climate change .
Ironically , President Bush claims that the UN does not follow through on its word .
He declared in London recently that &quot; the credibility of the UN depends on a willingness to keep its word and to act when action is required . &quot;
Yet the US repeatedly violates its own UN pledges .
For example , at the International Conference on Financing for Development , in Monterrey , Mexico in March 2002 , America signed the Monterrey Consensus , which includes a promise by rich countries to raise their development assistance towards 0.7 % of national income .
That would bring an additional $ 60 billion per year in foreign assistance from the US--approximately what it spent on Iraq this year .
Yet President Bush has simply ignored this promise .
There are many other similar commitments that the US has made in recent years to the UN that remain utterly unfulfilled .
The US promised action to fight man @-@ made climate change as a signatory to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change ( UNFCC ) in 1992 .
It has so far failed to act .
America also promised--in the Doha Declaration in 2001--to open its markets to the world &apos;s poorest countries .
Yet at Cancun , Mexico earlier this summer , it refused to open its markets even to exports from struggling African economies .
The list goes on and on .
At the Millennium Assembly in 2000 , the US promised to pursue reduction of global poverty , yet it has taken few steps in that direction .
At the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in 2002 , America committed itself to protect global ecosystems , yet little has been seen or heard from US policy makers on this issue since then .
America is certainly not alone in failing to promote the international goals adopted in the UN .
But because the US is the richest , most powerful country in the world , its neglect is devastating .
If the US really wants to undercut terrorism , it must recognize the interconnectedness of extremism , poverty , and environmental degradation , and it will need to understand the struggles for survival that are underway among the poor everywhere .
But the world should not wait for the America to come to its senses .
The US represents just 5 % of the world &apos;s population , and just one vote of 191 countries in the UN General Assembly .
Poor countries , especially the democracies of the developing world--Brazil , South Africa , India , Mexico , Ghana , the Philippines--should say , &quot; We need to act on the issues that concern us , not just on the issues that concern the US . &quot;
What the world needs most in 2004 is a declaration of independence from American willfulness .
A Democratic Burma ?
TOKYO - Historic transformations often happen when least expected .
Mikhail Gorbachev &apos;s liberalizing policies of glasnost and perestroika in the Soviet Union emerged at one of the Cold War &apos;s darkest hours , with US President Ronald Reagan pushing for strategic missile defense and the two sides fighting proxy wars in Afghanistan and elsewhere .
Deng Xiaoping &apos;s economic opening followed China &apos;s bloody - and failed - invasion of Vietnam in 1978 .
And South Africa &apos;s last apartheid leader , F. W. de Klerk , was initially perceived as just another apologist for the system - hardly the man to free Nelson Mandela and oversee the end of white minority rule .
Now the world is suddenly asking whether Burma ( Myanmar ) , after six decades of military dictatorship , has embarked on a genuine political transition that could end the country &apos;s pariah status .
Is Burma , like South Africa under de Klerk , truly poised to emerge from a half @-@ century of self @-@ imposed isolation ?
And can Aung San Suu Kyi , the heroic opposition leader , and Thein Sein , Burma &apos;s new president , engineer a political transition as skillfully and peacefully as Mandela and de Klerk did for South Africa in the early 1990 &quot; s ?
Despite her two decades of house arrest and isolation , Suu Kyi possesses two of the gifts that enabled Mandela to carry out his great task : a reassuring serenity and an utter lack of vindictiveness .
As Burma &apos;s authorities test reform , these gifts , together with her negotiating skills and , most of all , her vast moral authority , will be tested as never before .
Moreover , unlike Mandela during his 27 @-@ year imprisonment , Suu Kyi has had her hopes raised - and dashed - before .
In the mid @-@ 1990 &quot; s , and again in 2002 @-@ 2003 , reconciliation between Suu Kyi &apos;s National League for Democracy ( NLD ) and the military junta seemed to be in the offing .
On both occasions , however , the regime &apos;s hardliners gained the upper hand , crushing prospects for reform .
Yet Suu Kyi , and much of the Burmese opposition , is beginning to admit that today &apos;s political liberalization might be the real thing .
Because Burma &apos;s generals say almost nothing in public , it is difficult to fathom why they allowed elections that elevated Thein Sein to power , or to explain their willingness to embrace dialogue with the long @-@ suppressed opposition .
Recent events suggest one possible explanation : Burma &apos;s rulers have grown wary of China &apos;s almost smothering embrace - a result of the country &apos;s international isolation .
Indeed , public protests against China &apos;s commercial exploitation of Burma &apos;s natural resources became so widespread that the government called a halt to construction by Chinese investors on the huge and environmentally damaging Myitsone Dam on the Irrawaddy River .
Thein Sein &apos;s decision to halt the project is clearly an important policy shift .
It is also a signal to the outside world that Burma &apos;s new government may be much more willing than any of its predecessors to heed both public pressure and international opinion , both of which vehemently opposed the dam &apos;s construction .
Almost simultaneously , Thein Sein offered even stronger signals that his was a very different Burmese administration : he freed political prisoners and invited Suu Kyi for direct talks with him .
Indeed , Suu Kyi now enjoys far greater freedom of movement than she has at any time since she received the Nobel Peace Prize 20 years ago , and the NLD recently announced that it will field candidates in the forthcoming by @-@ elections to the country &apos;s newly established parliament .
If Suu Kyi is permitted to campaign free of restraint , for both her own seat and to boost the electoral chances of her NLD colleagues , it will be clear that Thein Sein and his government are truly determined to bring their country in from the cold .
For both Suu Kyi and Thein Sein , every step from now on will be delicate , to be calibrated with the same care and deliberation that Mandela and de Klerk used in bridging their differences and leading their country out of isolation .
But the international community , too , must act with great care .
While Thein Sein would undoubtedly wish to see the myriad economic and political sanctions imposed on Burma quickly lifted , it is too soon for a general easing of such measures .
But the outside world should demonstrate that every clear move toward greater political openness will merit more international political and economic engagement .
The Japan Investment Bank &apos;s decision to invest in port development in Burma - essential if the economy , too , is to be opened - is one positive sign that the world will keep pace with Thein Sein step for step .
And US President Barack Obama &apos;s decision to send Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to Burma to meet Thein Sein is another clear sign that the world is ready to end the country &apos;s isolation .
Closer to home , ASEAN &apos;s recent decision to give Burma a chance to chair the organization in 2014 underscores its neighbors &quot; desire for the country &apos;s full participation in Asia &apos;s growing prosperity .
No one should rush to judgment yet , but Thein Sein &apos;s decisions , at least so far , are beginning to resemble those of South Africa &apos;s de Klerk when he initiated his country &apos;s reform process .
Fortunately , Burma already has in Aung San Suu Kyi its very own Nelson Mandela .
A Democratic Windfall for Turkey ?
Turkey &apos;s seeming fall from grace with the US may turn out to be a blessing in disguise .
The Iraq war and the tortured diplomacy that led up to it may help resolve Turkey &apos;s conflict between its &quot; strategic alliance &quot; with America and its drive to join the EU .
The elections last November that brought the Justice and Development Party ( AKP ) to power were preceded by a dispute between the members of the then @-@ ruling coalition over enacting the reforms demanded by the EU .
Some liberal elements of that &quot; secular &quot; coalition resigned from the government and joined with the Islamists to push the reforms through parliament .
After coming to power , the AKP &apos;s leaders , former Islamists who had reinvented themselves as &quot; conservative democrats , &quot; energetically engaged with the US , the EU , and the UN on issues ranging from Cyprus to Iraq , from Kurdish language rights to other human rights issues within Turkey .
Having suffered the oppressive practices of Turkey &apos;s &quot; secular &quot; state and recognizing that human rights must be protected across @-@ the @-@ board , the AKP emerged as a credible interlocutor with the West .
The US , preoccupied with the supposed specter of a &quot; clash of civilizations &quot; between Islam and the West , saw the AKP &apos;s modern , westernized face as an opportunity and urged the EU to admit Turkey .
Today , both &quot; conservative democrats &quot; and liberals advocate passing all the reforms needed to gain accession to the EU , while opponents include extreme nationalists , of both left and right , as well as some elements of the &quot; secular &quot; establishment .
The Europeans could have tipped the balance decisively in favor of the reformers by finally rewarding the efforts of the pro @-@ EU Turks at last December &apos;s summit of EU leaders .
Instead , the EU kept Turkey waiting yet again , putting off formal negotiations that , in any case , may take years to complete .
Europe &apos;s persistent reluctance puts the Turks in a quandary .
The Americans want full EU membership for Turkey--a longstanding NATO member and close American ally--while Europeans complain about the Turkish military &apos;s domestic political role .
The paradox is that , by maintaining a political distance and thus limiting Turkey &apos;s options , Europe may end up reinforcing Turkey &apos;s status as a military outpost of the US .
At least , that was how things were shaping up prior to the war in Iraq .
Then , despite massive US pressure , Turkey &apos;s parliament unexpectedly rejected the government &apos;s proposal to allow US troops in Turkey to launch an invasion from Turkish territory .
Turkey &apos;s refusal to grant the Americans access to military bases on its territory effectively ruled out a northern front in the war .
The Turkish government even attempted a regional initiative for a peaceful solution to the crisis , an effort no current EU member could have contemplated .
Parliament &apos;s rejection of US troops powerfully refutes suggestions that Turkey was primarily concerned about the size of the American aid package on offer as an inducement to cooperate .
Suggestions that characterized the vote as revealing the government &apos;s true &quot; Islamic &quot; character ignore the fact that the only opposition party in parliament , the Republican People &apos;s Party--founded by Atatürk and still fully &quot; secularist &quot; --voted against the plan .
Likewise , other elements of Turkey &apos;s secular establishment , including the President and the military leadership , either opposed or were lukewarm , at best , to the idea of war in Iraq .
Turkey &apos;s military initially remained silent on the issue , uncharacteristically watching the civilian political process unfold .
By contrast , the military had earlier publicly criticized AKP initiatives on Cyprus .
Their silence on Iraq reflected their apprehension about unwanted alternatives : either support the US plan and risk encouraging Kurdish moves toward an independent state , or oppose the Americans and jeopardize a critical strategic relationship .
They chose to defer to the civilian leadership and to parliament , which , in voting down the US plan , reflected overwhelming public sentiment against the war .
Only after the vote did the Chief of Staff publicly endorse the original proposal to bring in American troops .
In fact , the allegedly Islamic party had skilfully managed to negotiate with an unrelenting US , consult with the Turkish military and President , and share all information with the public and parliament .
Walking a fine line in what was essentially a lose @-@ lose situation , the party leadership laid out the stakes clearly and judiciously left the final decision to parliament .
The outcome was a victory for Turkish democracy and recognized as such internationally .
After the US military action in Iraq , the tables may be turning in surprising ways .
As America establishes itself in Iraq , Turkey &apos;s geopolitical military significance may decline .
Yet the declared American aim of building a Muslim democracy in Iraq will only enhance Turkey &apos;s symbolic importance as a role model .
This shift in Turkey &apos;s strategic role may also be reflected in a new domestic balance between the military and the forces pushing for reform .
With careful management , Turkey may find itself drawing closer to Europe , while rebuilding its relationship with America .
A Devaluation Option for Southern Europe
CAMBRIDGE - This year is likely to mark a make @-@ or @-@ break ordeal for the euro .
The eurozone &apos;s survival demands a credible solution to its long @-@ running sovereign @-@ debt crisis , which in turn requires addressing the two macroeconomic imbalances - &amp; nbsp ; external and fiscal - &amp; nbsp ; which are at the heart of that crisis .
The crisis has exposed the deep disparities in competitiveness that have developed within the eurozone .
From 1996 to 2010 , unit labor costs in Germany increased by just 8 % , and by 13 % in France .
Compare that to 24 % in Portugal , 35 % in Spain , 37 % in Italy , and a whopping 59 % in Greece .
The result has been large trade imbalances between eurozone countries , a problem compounded by large fiscal deficits and high levels of public debt in southern Europe ( and France ) - much of it owed to foreign creditors .
Does addressing these imbalances require breaking up the eurozone ?
Suppose , for example , that Portugal were to leave and re @-@ introduce the escudo .
The ensuing exchange @-@ rate devaluation would immediately lower the price of Portugal &apos;s exports , raise its import prices , stimulate the economy , and bring about much @-@ needed growth .
But a euro exit would be a messy affair .
The resulting turmoil could very well trump any short @-@ term gains in competitiveness from devaluation .
There is a remarkably simple alternative that does not require southern Europe &apos;s troubled economies to abandon the euro and devalue their exchange rates .
It involves increasing the value @-@ added tax while cutting payroll taxes .
Our recent research demonstrates that such a &quot; fiscal devaluation &quot; has very similar effects on the economy in terms of its impact on GDP , consumption , employment , and inflation .
A currency devaluation works by making imports more costly and exports cheaper .
A VAT / payroll @-@ tax swap would do exactly the same thing .
An increase in VAT raises the price of imported goods , as foreign firms face a higher tax .
To ensure that domestic firms do not have an incentive to raise prices , an increase in VAT needs to be accompanied by a cut in payroll taxes .
Moreover , since exports are exempt from VAT , the price of domestic exports will fall .
The desired competitiveness effects of exchange @-@ rate devaluation can thus be had while staying in the euro .
This policy can also help on the fiscal front .
As is true of an exchange @-@ rate devaluation , the positive impact on growth of an increase in competitiveness can strengthen the fiscal position by raising tax revenues .
Moreover , an important advantage of fiscal devaluations is that they generate additional revenues in proportion to the country &apos;s trade deficit .
For countries that are suffering from weak competitiveness and , as a consequence , running trade deficits , this typically means more revenues , especially in the short run .
Like exchange @-@ rate devaluations , fiscal devaluations create winners and losers .
Both act as a wealth levy : inflation means that bondholders suffer a real loss in proportion to their wealth and the size of the devaluation .
If taxes on capital are not adjusted , holders of domestic stocks suffer a comparable loss .
By contrast , many transfers , such as unemployment benefits , health benefits , and public pensions , are indexed to inflation , and thus maintain their real value .
The same is true of minimum wages .
These distributive effects play an important role in the politics of exchange @-@ rate devaluations , and most of these effects appear in fiscal devaluations as well .
Fiscal devaluations already have some advocates .
Indeed , French President Nicolas Sarkozy &apos;s government just announced one .
And concerns that a fiscal devaluation will conflict with euro rules can be met by simply pointing out that Germany &apos;s government carried one out in 2007 , though by another name , when it raised VAT from 16 % to 19 % and cut employers &quot; contribution to social insurance , from 6.5 % to 4.2 % .
In short , there are simple fiscal alternatives to exchange @-@ rate devaluation that can address southern Europe &apos;s short @-@ term competitiveness problems .
To be sure , feasible fiscal devaluations would be limited in size .
But , together with debt restructuring , accommodative monetary policy , liquidity support from the European Central Bank , and much @-@ required structural reforms , they can help to put these troubled economies on a sound footing without a euro breakup or a major austerity @-@ induced recession .
A Dim Light on Global Warming
COPENHAGEN - Amid a growing wave of concern about climate change , many countries - including Brazil , Australia , the United States , and the members of the European Union - passed laws in the 2000 &quot; s outlawing or severely restricting access to incandescent light bulbs .
The intention was understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged most light bulbs for energy @-@ efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( CFLs ) , we could save 3.5 % of all electricity , or 1 % of our CO2 emissions .
The current attempt by Republicans in the US Congress to roll back America &apos;s effort to ban incandescent bulbs has revived this discussion .
Many contend that the agenda is being driven by knuckle @-@ dragging climate @-@ change deniers .
But it &apos;s worth taking a closer look at the premise that banning things is the smartest way to tackle global warming .
Let &apos;s be clear : we do need to tackle climate change .
But this does not mean that we should just cut all emissions .
Burning fossil fuels also has significant benefits , and we should weigh those benefits against the costs .
A tax on carbon should be equivalent to its damage .
The best estimate of this is about $ 7 / ton of CO2 or $ 0.06 / gallon of gasoline ( € 0.015 / liter ) .
Most developed countries already have a tax of this size ( and often much larger ) on electricity and fossil fuels , although this also incorporates the costs of air pollution and supply insecurity .
While CFLs are more expensive to buy , they are much cheaper over their lifespan , because they use much less energy ( even more so with the cost of CO2 factored into taxes on electricity ) .
Thus , on a straightforward cost @-@ benefit basis , it seems to make sense for most people to switch from incandescent bulbs to the new , greener technology .
This is what is great about technological solutions to climate change : if an alternative option is cheaper , people will start using it .
My household uses CFLs , and I enjoy knowing that I am causing fewer CO2 emissions and spending less money .
Why , then , is it even necessary to outlaw the old bulbs ?
The reason is that monetary cost is only one factor .
Many people find it annoying that CFLs take time to &quot; warm up . &quot;
Or they believe that their light is &quot; funny . &quot;
Or they worry that the bulbs can spread poisonous mercury if they break .
For some people , energy @-@ efficient bulbs can trigger epileptic seizures and migraines .
The up @-@ front cost is a factor , too , especially for those on low budgets .
And in places where lights are not used very often , a lower @-@ price incandescent bulb can cost less overall than the energy @-@ efficient alternative .
You might imagine that people could choose the right light bulbs for themselves .
But proponents of phasing out access to incandescent bulbs argue that they know better .
As US Energy Secretary Steven Chu put it recently , &quot; We are taking away a choice that continues to let people waste their own money . &quot;
Setting aside other possible objections to this view , there is the problem that it presumes that all incandescent bulbs are worth less than $ 7 / ton of CO2 .
This is clearly not true for those who suffer from migraines or epileptic seizures because of the new bulbs , or for those who are seriously worried about mercury , or for those who have other reasons for preferring incandescent bulbs .
The solution should be to focus on improving the technology - making the lights safer , brighter , warm up faster , and save more energy , so that more people will replace more of their lights .
But it is not just light bulbs that policymakers have tried to ban .
EU parliamentarians voted overwhelmingly to outlaw patio heaters , which one MEP declared to be &quot; a luxury the planet cannot afford . &quot;
Who decides when something is luxurious ?
And where does this end ?
Should we outlaw air conditioning or television satellite boxes because some people find them luxurious ?
Should we ban private cars wherever public transport is available to move us from A to B with fewer CO2 emissions ?
It makes sense to reflect the cost of CO2 ( among many other factors ) in the price paid to drive our cars or heat our patios ; but when the phase @-@ out proceeds more slowly than some lawmakers wish , a ban is not the right solution .
Real reductions in carbon emissions will occur only when better technology makes it worthwhile for individuals and businesses to change their behavior .
CFLs and other advances can take us part of the way , but there are massive technological hurdles to overcome before fossil fuels generally become less attractive than greener alternatives .
This is where a lot of policymakers get it wrong .
Governments talk far too much about setting a relatively high carbon tax on emissions , while focusing far too little on ensuring a meaningful increase in research and development to bring about necessary breakthroughs .
Limiting access to the &quot; wrong &quot; light bulbs or patio heaters , ultimately , is not the right path .
We will only solve global warming by ensuring that alternative technologies are better than our current options .
Then , people the world over will choose to use them .
A Doomsday Scenario
As America debates whether or not to invade Iraq , fears that the country &apos;s economic recovery will stall are beginning to creep into the discussion ; with that , worries about the health of the global economy are growing , too .
A consensus is emerging that the gap between the US economy &apos;s growth potential and its actual performance will remain large for some time to come .
Can the situation get worse ?
Yes , it can : much worse .
A number of worrying factors about the US economy have been around for a long time :
huge trade deficits have persisted since Ronald Reagan &apos;s misguided tax cuts of 1981 converted America from the world &apos;s largest creditor into the world &apos;s largest debtor .
Today , these deficits set new records by the month ;
America &apos;s appallingly low savings rate .
When American wealth seemed to be growing year after year as the stock market boomed , this was understandable ; individual Americans were becoming richer without savings , so why bother ?
Today &apos;s savings rate , while it has increased slightly , still finds America at the bottom of the world &apos;s savings league tables ;
lax accounting standards .
The Arthur Anderson , Enron , and WorldCom scandals didn &apos;t emerge out of thin air , but had their origins in the mid @-@ 1990s , when the US Treasury actually intervened to stop attempts by the supposedly independent accounting standards board to improve matters .
Bad accounting contributed to the recent stock market bubble ; bad information led to stock prices that did not reflect underlying realities ; and these in turn provided incentives for the excess investment in telecoms that caused today &apos;s excess capacity .
To this old brew , new ingredients have been added , notably the most rapid change in a nation &apos;s fiscal posture the world has probably ever seen .
In a &quot; now you see it , now you don &apos;t &quot; move only a magician should love , the $ 3 trillion , ten year ( non social security ) US budget surplus was - in a matter of months - converted into a gaping
Of course , excuses are at hand : the magnitude of the economic downturn was not anticipated and the increased expenditures to fight terrorism could not be foretold .
Excuses , excuses .
As the old saying goes : Don &apos;t count your chickens before they hatch .
The Bush Administration not only counted its chickens , it sold them forward !
To anyone with decent eyesight , it was clear that the rosy budget projections of two years ago were nonsense .
Clear , too , was the fact that , in promoting its tax cuts , the Bush Administration was engaging ( on a multi @-@ billion dollar scale ) in dishonest , Enron @-@ like accounting .
So if things are so bad now , how can they get worse ?
Here &apos;s a plausible scenario .
To finance its trade deficit , America must borrow from abroad over a billion dollars a day .
When America was the only safe haven for global investors , this was easy .
But America today appears less safe .
The combination of lack of confidence in US corporate accounts , lack of confidence in America &apos;s economic policy management ( compounded by the mounting deficits ) , and America &apos;s soft underlying economic fundamentals , has dented the US economy &apos;s global reputation .
As foreigners start pulling their money out of a country they suspect , the dollar will weaken .
As the dollar weakens , America looks even less safe . So a rush to the door begins .
While a weak dollar may be good for exports , a falling dollar will be accompanied by stock market losses and greater declines in confidence .
Eventually , even the almighty American consumer will be shaken and realize that he is poorer today than three years ago and that he better start putting money away for his retirement , especially given Bush &apos;s proposed risky experiments with the social security system .
At that point , Americans will join the stampede out of their economy .
Why shouldn &apos;t they ?
They &apos;re free to choose where to put their money .
Europe &apos;s stock markets will begin to look like an attractive alternative .
But this scenario offers no happy ending for Europe .
A weakening US economy and the strengthening Euro will dampen European exports .
The European Central Bank , fixated on inflation , will be slow to lower interest rates , and the European Stability Pact will make it impossible for fiscal policy to offset these weaknesses .
Europe will join America in a downturn , reinforcing America &apos;s decline and setting in motion a global downward spiral .
I am not predicting that this will happen .
I hope that the Bush Administration will enact policies to strengthen the US economy : a tax cut that might made minimal sense when it
America is strong , and the global economy is strong .
Should the disastrous events contemplated here occur , a new global economy will eventually emerge from the ashes .
Downturns , of course , can never be fully prevented . We can , however , decrease their frequency ; we can make them shallower ; we can ensure that fewer people are hurt and that those that get hurt are better protected .
Sadly , we are doing less than is possible to prevent things from getting worse and doing less than necessary to protect ourselves from the consequences .
A Double @-@ Dip Recession for the US ?
Last winter , America &apos;s central bank - the Federal Reserve - was busy patting itself on the back .
The Fed &apos;s cut in its basic interest rate to 1.75 % per year seemed to have worked : the recession was ending .
Despite sobered expectations about the high @-@ tech revolution &apos;s impact on productivity and profits , as well as the jitters inspired by the terror attack on the World Trade Center , American businesses , it was believed , would soon start investing again big @-@ time because borrowing money at 1.75 % was too good a deal to pass up .
By late spring , those expectations had disintegrated alongside the collapse of Enron , WorldCom , and Arthur Andersen .
Suddenly , everyone doubted the integrity of the financial accounts of American companies .
Suddenly , everyone saw just how much America &apos;s system of corporate surveillance and control had deteriorated during the bubble of the 1990s .
The American stock market fell 15 @-@ 20 % below its winter levels .
Spreads between the interest rate at which America &apos;s government could borrow and the interest rates at which America &apos;s corporations could borrow widened .
Suddenly , the Fed stopped congratulating itself : a 1.75 % interest rate might be the right interest rate to fuel a recovery when the Dow @-@ Jones stock market index stands at 10,000 , but not when the Dow @-@ Jones index stands at 8,500 .
Throughout the summer , corporate investment news remained disappointing .
More and more analysts began to speak about the possibility of a &quot; double dip &quot; recession .
Yet throughout all this , the Federal Reserve remained passive .
The short @-@ term interest rates it controlled didn &apos;t budge .
Only in mid @-@ August did the Fed hint that interest rates might be cut .
The informal and unofficial rationale leaking out of the Fed for its inaction had two parts .
First , short @-@ term interest rates were already so low that everyone would see further cuts as temporary only .
They would thus have little effect on the longer @-@ term rates that really drive business investment .
Second , short @-@ term interest rates were so low that additional cuts would spook the financial markets : if even the Fed thought conditions warranted cuts , the argument went , businesses would respond not by increasing their investments but by reducing them .
The Fed &apos;s judgment appeared to be that it was largely ( if not completely ) powerless : it had done all that it could , and the levers of monetary policy were no longer strongly connected to determining the level of economic activity .
So the US in 2002 joined Japan in what economists have for sixty @-@ five years called a Liquidity Trap : a situation in which the short @-@ term nominal interest rates the central bank controls are so low and so loosely connected to the level of aggregate demand that further reductions are ineffective in fighting a recession .
America &apos;s situation was not unique : Japan had been in been in thrall to a liquidity trap since the mid @-@ 1990s .
But there had been no other examples since the Great Depression of the 1930s .
Whether America now really is in a liquidity trap is uncertain . How long this state of affairs will last is unknown .
Nevertheless , even if America is only on the edge of a liquidity trap , and even if it moves away from the current state of affairs soon , this is a frightening situation .
If monetary policy is not effective , the only lever the American government has to manage its economy is fiscal policy : changes in the government &apos;s tax and spending plans to change the government &apos;s direct contribution to aggregate demand .
But the lesson of the decades since World War II is that the US government - with its complex , baroque , eighteenth @-@ century organization - is incapable of changing policy fast enough to make effective use of fiscal policy as a tool for managing the economy .
It simply takes too long for changes in taxes and spending to work their way through Congress and the bureaucracy .
An America caught in a liquidity trap is , quite simply , a country with no effective tools of macroeconomic management .
There have been two eras since World War II when policymakers - American policymakers , at least - believed that they had solved the riddle of the business cycle and had learned how to manage a modern industrial or post @-@ industrial economy .
The first was the Keynesian high @-@ water mark of confidence in demand management of the 1960s .
It was destroyed by the inflation of the Vietnam era and the oil @-@ price shocks of the 1970s .
The second was the decade of successful business @-@ cycle management by Alan Greenspan &apos;s independent , apolitical , and technocratic Fed during the 1990s .
This second era now appears to have been as fleeting as the first .
Eighty years ago , John Maynard Keynes argued that governments needed to take responsibility for maintaining full employment and price stability - that the pre @-@ World War I gold standard had not been the golden age people thought it was , and that its successes were the result of a lucky combination of circumstances unlikely to be repeated .
Keynes was an optimist in believing that governments could learn to manage the business cycle .
He would be shocked to look at today &apos;s world : a Europe with stubbornly high unemployment , a Japan mired in a decade of near stagnation , and now an America lacking the policy tools to deal with any additional unexpected economic bad news .
A Dutch Treat for Brazil ?
Brazil &apos;s successful return to the financial markets at the end of April and the strengthening of the country &apos;s currency , the real , have shown that the election of President Luiz Inácio da Silva ( Lula ) has not led to a collapse of foreign confidence .
But nor do recent positive developments eliminate the need for structural economic reforms .
Lula recognizes that progress in this area , including labor market reform , is critical if Brazil is to grow sufficiently to allow him to carry on his ambitious social agenda .
How Lula , a former metal worker and founder of CUT , which also represents most automobile workers , manages relations with the trade unions will be critical .
Recent strikes by car workers at General Motors , Renault , Volvo , and Ford factories in Brazil do not augur well .
Proposed social security and tax reforms , presented to Congress at the end of April , seem to be creating additional tension .
Lula should look to Europe for examples of how to achieve high rates of growth and job creation yet maintain social protection .
Europe also can provide a roadmap for politicians determined to move from being anti @-@ market left @-@ wingers in opposition to reform @-@ minded statesmen holding power .
Spain &apos;s Felipe González and Britain &apos;s Tony Blair both made that journey .
But a better example may be Wim Kok , who stepped down last year after eight years as Dutch Prime Minister .
Both Lula and Kok share the unusual distinction of becoming heads of government after serving as trade union leaders .
Upon reaching the top of the FNV , Holland &apos;s largest trade union , Kok found himself in a position of considerable influence in Dutch economic policymaking .
During his tenure as a union leader in the late 1970s and early 1980s , the Dutch economy experienced prolonged malaise--stagnant growth , high unemployment , prohibitive interest rates , and low corporate profitability .
Large fiscal deficits crowded out private investment .
Holland &apos;s problems were mainly structural , although a cyclical economic downturn made matters worse .
By 1982 , the situation had deteriorated to the point that the &quot; social partners &quot; in the Dutch tripartite system ( government , business , and trade unions ) concluded that combating the crisis required a break with the past .
The defining moment came with the Wassenaar agreement of that year--a pact between employers and trade unions , reached with the active encouragement of government .
Trade unions agreed to moderate wage claims and abandon wage indexation , in exchange for reduced working time and improved prospects for the future .
The increased flexibility of the Dutch labor market eventually restored private @-@ sector profitability and led to rapid job creation , among the highest in Europe and comparable to the rate in the US .
A prudent fiscal stance , pursued while the economy recovered and interest rates fell , created room for big cuts in taxes and social contributions .
With lower inflation , this raised workers &apos; real disposable income , enabling trade union leaders to demonstrate to their members that wage moderation worked and was in their interest .
The recent , much weaker , performance of the Dutch economy is largely explained by strong wage increases , which undermined competitiveness and contributed to job extinction .
This prompted Kok to call last year--on the 20
How is the Wassenaar model relevant to Brazil ?
Not unlike Holland in the early 1980s , Brazil &apos;s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth amid fiscal constraints and high interest rates .
While Brazil &apos;s registered unemployment rate is not very high by regional standards , its fast growing labor force requires a high rate of job creation .
Emulating the Dutch experience with job creation provides the surest possible path to alleviating poverty in Brazil .
The idea is not that Brazil should seek to implement the Dutch social @-@ economic model--the countries are too different for that .
But Lula can and should follow Kok &apos;s example and use his trade union connections , as well as his rapport with the working class , to achieve a social pact aimed at achieving sustained improvement in Brazil &apos;s overall economic performance and realizing its potential to become Latin America &apos;s economic powerhouse .
Brazil has benefited from an improvement in market sentiment and financial indicators since Lula &apos;s election .
Now its government should encourage a Wassenaar @-@ style guarantee of social peace .
This would give the authorities room to address the country &apos;s daunting longer @-@ term policy agenda--including a major reform of the costly pension system , an overhaul of the tax system , and strengthening the bankruptcy framework--that Brazil must face in order to boost competitiveness .
Lula &apos;s countrymen , who elected him overwhelmingly , need rapid economic growth and job creation .
That will happen only if Lula completes a successful transformation from anti @-@ market trade union leader into a statesman judiciously blending economic and social reform .
Success would benefit not only Brazil , but have a strong demonstration effect across Latin America .
A Europe of Provinces , Not States
As the European Constitutional Convention assembles to debate the fine points of the European Union &apos;s future institutions , now is the moment to think the unthinkable about where Europe is heading .
Or at least , to consider perhaps a quite different question : where would it be reasonable for the EU to move ?
Communism &apos;s fall saw the appearance of several small states in Europe .
Estonia , Latvia , and Lithuania reemerged from Soviet occupation .
Czechoslovakia split into two separate states .
Yugoslavia gave way to Slovenia , Croatia , Bosnia , Serbia , Macedonia ; it may perhaps shortly disgorge Kosovo and Montenegro as well .
Although the Baltic republics merely reestablished their pre @-@ WWII independence , and Yugoslavia &apos;s breakup was a bloody affair like so many other wars of independence , there is something tantalizing new in all this as well .
In the interwar years , the Baltic states were often viewed as impractical , artificial creations of the Great Powers .
Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia came into existence because their constituent parts were not seen as viable independent states .
Why was this ?
Because 80 years ago , when Wilson , Clemenceau , and Lloyd George redrew the map of Europe , small states were dysfunctional in times of both war and peace .
To be viable , a state needed to be large enough to defend itself and to constitute a relatively self @-@ contained economic market .
None of this holds true today .
With the prospect of entry into the EU , national markets matter less .
Both EU and NATO membership make war among European member states unthinkable , and an attack on even the smallest NATO member would bring a response from all NATO members .
Lacking such external threats , the ties between , say , Czechs and Slovaks ( to say nothing of Serbs and Croats ! ) are too weak to warrant a common national level of government .
Does this tell us something about the future of Europe as a whole ?
The difference between Czechoslovakia and Italy or Germany is mostly one of 50 years .
After all , wasn &apos;t Italy , until 1860s , a collection of kingdoms and principalities ?
Wasn &apos;t Germany &apos;s unification a matter of &quot; blood and iron &quot; ?
France and Spain are older , but is the marriage of Basques , Catalans , and Corsicans with their national states that much happier than the former Czech / Slovak marriage ?
Is there really that much reason why the Scots and Welsh should be part of the same national state as the English ?
Abstract for a second from the idea of French or German or Italian identity , patriotism , the collective memories of war and carnage that cemented the consciousness of today &apos;s linguistic communities and think of this : why do Europeans need an intermediate level of government , between the common European framework and their local institutions ?
Why do Piemontese , Bavarians , or Scots need intermediate national bureaucracies to run their tax policies , welfare programs , securities laws , and the largely useless , duplicative armies ?
Wouldn &apos;t life be easier if a common market , currency , foreign policy , army , and a few other things were run on a Europe @-@ wide basis , with the rest left to more meaningful local units ?
It is fashionable to mock the bureaucratic minutia of European regulation .
But European regulation is as nothing compared to the mountains of national laws and decrees , billions wasted in political patronage , and the colossal state machines that eat up 30 @-@ 40 % of the economic product of Europe &apos;s nation states .
Could any common European state do worse ?
Indeed , the creation of a European federal government and the elimination of national intermediaries would probably lead to the greatest liberalization of the economy ( and society as a whole ) in Europe &apos;s entire history .
Look at America in 1787 : creation of the federal government swept away the balkanized system of pre @-@ revolutionary colonies , ushering in an era of entrepreneurial expansion across the entire American Continent .
The simple fact is that Europe as a whole is too diverse to be captured by the economic and political interest groups that now dominate national states .
It is only as an
Nations also put Europe &apos;s constitutional balance out of kilter .
Germany and Italy are simply too big , as compared to Portugal or Belgium ( itself a rather questionable amalgam of the Flemish and the Walloons ) , and this creates the types of imbalances reminiscent of the heavy foot of Prussia in the old Bismarckian empire .
Could a federal Europe replace today &apos;s national identities ?
Could the French and the British feel as spiritually at home in &quot; Europe &quot; as they feel in their national states ?
No , but must they ?
When Europeans think of future institutions , the tension is always seen as that between national differences and the common European identity .
But what if common European institutions are not viewed through the prism of national institutions ?
What if the evolution of European consciousness proceeds not by an upward transfer of attachment to supranational institutions , but by a
Of course , the demise of national states is not imminent , but not because they are so deeply rooted in the consciousness of their citizens .
Indeed , national identities are mostly impoverishing abstractions , clichés , like race , class , and other ideological creations .
Think of how much more genuine diversity would there be in a united Europe if national states did not squat in the middle .
But Europe &apos;s nation states are not going to disappear for a while because they are
A Europe of Women ?
PARIS - Are women in Europe on the verge of becoming an engine for political change ?
In economic @-@ development circles , experience and common sense suggest that progress , accountability , and hard work start with and depend on women .
Micro @-@ credits , for example , are much more efficient when women receive and repay them .
Perhaps because they bear children and must find the means to feed them , women are now perceived as the best and most determined &quot; agents of change . &quot;
That seems to be as true now of European politics as it has been of economics in parts of Africa and Asia .
The results of Italy &apos;s recent municipal elections could be a signal of an incipient electoral dynamic : it was women who voted Silvio Berlusconi &apos;s party out of power in Milan , a city that he has long controlled ( and the original seat of his power ) .
No direct link exists between that result and the dramatic Dominique Strauss @-@ Kahn scandal in New York , but in the immediate aftermath of DSK &apos;s arrest , Italian women and young voters decisively mobilized to defeat Berlusconi &apos;s party ( led in Milan , ironically , by a woman ) .
These voters could no longer stand the combination of machismo and vulgarity that had once served so well the man Italian humorists now call &quot; Berlus @-@ Kahn . &quot;
When Berlusconi first came to power 17 years ago , he had the support of a majority of women .
They were not discouraged by his ambivalent perception of them ( by turns celebrating their traditional domesticity and glorifying their sexual objectification ) .
But Italian society has changed : most women are now working , and they are no longer willing to accept Belusconi &apos;s anachronistic and outrageous chauvinism .
Italian men may pity the aging , isolated leader , who looks increasingly like his wax effigy at Madame Tussaud &apos;s .
But Italian women ( indeed , women everywhere , it seems ) feel only anger and humiliation over a man so obsessed with himself , his various criminal trials , and his vulgar pleasures that he appears to them to have no purpose left except to remain in power as long as possible .
Women , of course , are not alone in their opposition to Berlusconi , but they made the difference in Milan .
They are the incarnation of modernity , animated by a yearning for simple dignity and respect .
They are not alone in the vanguard of a new Europe of women .
As Iceland spiraled into bankruptcy , owing the irresponsible behavior of its mostly male political and financial elites , the people of Iceland decided that only a strong and responsible woman could redress the country &apos;s problems .
So they elected one as President .
The depth and gravity of the current economic and social crisis in countries like Greece , Portugal , and Spain present women with a new opportunity .
Confronted with what many of them perceive as the equivalent of an &quot; economic war , &quot; women are playing an increasingly important role in maintaining their families &quot; financial security .
And the more widespread this becomes , the more women will seek a political role that reflects their economic clout .
Of course , women &apos;s changing status may not translate immediately into growing political influence .
And the rest of Europe might never follow the example of Scandinavia , where gender equality has advanced much further than anywhere else .
But such a dynamic does now seem to be in motion .
Similarly , regardless of the outcome of DSK &apos;s trial in New York , the case might represent a turning point in the treatment of women in Europe .
Public and private displays of atavistic machismo , one hopes , will no longer be considered acceptable .
In the Arab world , too , from Tunis to Cairo , young women have played an important role in the revolutionary process .
Their appetite for change - understandable , given the treatment of women in traditional Muslim societies - appears to be one of the main causes underlying the force of the revolutionary impulse in Tunisia and Egypt .
None of this is to argue that &quot; women &quot; are a universal force for positive change in Europe and around the world .
Consider , for example , Marine Le Pen , the new head of France &apos;s National Front , Elena Ceaucescu , the sordid wife of the former Romanian dictator , or , more recently , Tunisian ex @-@ President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali &apos;s wife , Leila Trabelsi , who fled to Dubai with 1.5 tons of gold plundered from the central bank .
The point , simply , is that with so many people in so many countries demanding far @-@ reaching change , the politics of gender is very much in play - in Europe and beyond .
The main question is whether the growing number of women in politics will deliver the different perspectives and modes of leadership that many voters ( or protesters ) now seem to crave .
A European Cure for Balkan Depression
VIENNA - European politics is mostly shaped by events and anniversaries .
But while events are often unforeseeable , anniversaries are not .
Five years from now , Europe will be reflecting on the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of World War 1 , which led to a loss of life almost without parallel and set in motion a chain of events that led to the creation of Europe as we now know it .
World leaders may have already reserved some days in August 2014 to mark the occasion .
It is easy to predict that Sarajevo will be the place where they will meet to look back on Europe &apos;s savage twentieth century .
But how will Sarajevo look in five years ?
Will it still be the capital of a country whose citizens view the future bleakly and whose politicians have totally lost touch with the electorate ?
Or is there a hope that European leaders will use the anniversary to announce the successful integration of the remaining Balkan countries into the European Union ?
A Balkan Monitor survey recently conducted by Gallup Europe gives suggests the state of public opinion in Serbia , Montenegro , Macedonia , Albania , Croatia , Bosnia and Herzegovina , and Kosovo 20 years on from the fall of the Berlin Wall and a decade after the end of the Kosovo war .
The findings seem to indicate that the next five years will be a make @-@ or @-@ break period for the region &apos;s future development .
While the overwhelming majority of citizens are convinced that further armed conflict in the region is unlikely , the public &apos;s mood - with the exception of Kosovars and Albanians - is pessimistic .
The future promises peace without development .
Trust in political elites and in national and European institutions has been steadily declining .
The majority of citizens have experienced a decline in living standards in the last year , and there remains a perception that people have more opportunities outside their own countries .
Pessimism about employment is alarmingly high among young people , while corruption and government mismanagement are regarded as being widespread .
All those who have made it their job to praise the stability in the region should look at these figures .
Indeed , it is striking that the majority of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina believe that their leaders are not interested in their country joining the EU .
An absolute majority of citizens in each of the surveyed countries are convinced that their country is heading in the wrong direction .
Less than one in 10 Croats ( whose country could be joining the EU in the near future ) believes that their country is heading in the right direction .
There are now two options for the region : one is a &quot; shock integration &quot; program that takes all of the Western Balkan states into the EU ; the other is a journey into the unknown .
The hope that these countries can muddle through on their own is a dangerous illusion .
Stability alone can no longer be the EU &apos;s only objective in the region .
The EU &apos;s continuing presence as a colonial power in places like Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo could cause even more problems in the future , especially if benefits are not forthcoming .
In particular , a delay in Serbia &apos;s integration into the EU could bring Tito @-@ inspired fantasies to the heart of the country &apos;s foreign and security policy .
Thus , demoralization of Balkan society creates a dynamic of its own when the best and the brightest see their future outside of their own countries and where &quot; stability &quot; is just another name for political and economic stagnation .
If European leaders do plan to meet in 2014 in Sarajevo , they should act now .
The ratification of the Lisbon Treaty allows for an element of visionary realism in European politics , as there are no longer any institutional obstacles to the future enlargement of the EU .
Today , unlike a year ago , we know how many states are in the Balkans , and the
But it is now or never for the Balkans .
Visa liberalization can be a strategic step in the direction of &quot; shock integration , &quot; but if it is not followed by bold political action from the EU , it could merely become a re @-@ packaging of the
Closing Europe &apos;s Strategy Gap
MADRID - The ongoing crisis in Ukraine has been a hot topic of analysis for almost a year .
But one question has largely escaped thorough examination : what Russia &apos;s annexation of Crimea and invasion of eastern Ukraine indicates about the European Union &apos;s foreign policy .
During the early stages of the crisis , Germany , which had bet heavily on Russia &apos;s modernization , was averse to taking any consequential action .
But , as the crisis deepened , German Chancellor Angela Merkel worked to persuade her European counterparts to implement a broad and biting sanctions regime .
This certainly was a step in the right direction , but it did nothing to address the foreign @-@ policy failings that helped spark the Ukrainian crisis and continue to undermine Europe &apos;s response - namely , the EU &apos;s misguided Neighborhood Policy ( ENP ) and its muddled approach to energy .
On both of these fronts , the EU &apos;s lack of strategic vision has created the impression that Europe is repeatedly being outmaneuvered by Russian President Vladimir Putin .
It increasingly appears that Ukraine is becoming locked in a &quot; frozen conflict &quot; - Russia &apos;s foreign @-@ policy specialty .
Indeed , the situation in Ukraine represents a tactical victory for Russia , with the fragile but enduring ceasefire - and accompanying legislation that grants Donetsk and Luhansk considerable political autonomy - allowing Russia to entrench the conflict near the EU &apos;s border .
Moreover , the delayed implementation of key elements of the EU &apos;s association agreement with Ukraine is clear evidence that , at the moment , Russia dictates the terms of EU @-@ Ukrainian engagement .
In Europe , the Kremlin has been able to pursue a successful divide @-@ and @-@ rule strategy , particularly in view of Hungary &apos;s decision to suspend gas flows to Ukraine .
Prime Minister Viktor Orbán &apos;s government , whose behavior in recent years has been at odds with the EU &apos;s criteria for democracy , now openly approves of authoritarian regimes - and Putin &apos;s , in particular - with serious potential consequences for European unity .
Nonetheless , the timing of the current ceasefire , which coincides with the installation of a new EU Commission , is advantageous , as is Putin &apos;s shortsighted emphasis on tactical victories .
EU leaders should take advantage of the break in the fighting to stop reacting and start anticipating .
With a long @-@ term strategic vision , the EU could overwhelm and ultimately undermine Putin &apos;s short @-@ term successes .
Such a vision must include a reconceptualization of the ENP .
The program &apos;s mission - to help guide the political , social , and economic transitions of neighboring states - is not inherently problematic ; the problem lies in the way that the mission has been interpreted and pursued .
For starters , the ENP assumes that all of the EU &apos;s neighbors , both in the south and in the east , ultimately want to realize European values and structures in their own countries .
In other words , the ENP does not account for the developmental , cultural , and aspirational differences among the EU &apos;s partner countries .
The ENP suffers operationally from its excessively technical approach and lack of strategic vision .
For example , before the Ukraine crisis , the European Commission was so focused on negotiating the technical features of the association agreement that it did not consider adequately the potential fallout of the process - such as , say , a response from Russia .
To be sure , the EU recognized its need for a coherent strategy , and attempted to resolve it by establishing the European External Action Service and the position of High Representative for Foreign Affairs .
But the EEAS ended up in a turf war with the European Commission , and outgoing High Representative Catherine Ashton did little to ease the tension , owing to her unwillingness to involve herself in intra @-@ EU disagreements .
It is telling that Ashton has made progress exclusively in areas defined by ample consensus , such as the negotiations on Iran &apos;s nuclear program and the pact between Kosovo and Serbia .
Further eroding Europe &apos;s effectiveness is its fragmented approach to securing energy supplies .
With every country largely controlling its own energy policy , Europe &apos;s energy market has become inefficient and excessively dependent on Russian supplies .
To the extent that there has been an EU @-@ wide energy strategy , it has related to renewables , rather than the intersection of geopolitics and energy security .
But there is reason for hope .
The new Commission , which its president , Jean Claude Juncker , has restructured significantly , could provide Europe with the strategic leadership it so badly needs .
In fact , Juncker has already expressed a desire to integrate incoming High Representative Federica Mogherini into the Commission &apos;s policy program .
The new structure - which tasks Mogherini with guiding and coordinating the work of multiple commissioners , including those responsible for trade , the ENP , and climate and energy - should strengthen the coherence and direction of EU policies , particularly after Mogherini completes her European Council @-@ mandated assessment of the global strategic landscape .
But a restructured Commission is not enough to ensure a reset of Europe &apos;s foreign @-@ policy strategy .
For that to happen , Mogherini must assert herself as a leader , backed by Juncker and the new European Council president , Donald Tusk .
And , most important , all EU member states must recommit themselves to cooperation .
The Ukrainian people have demonstrated the power of Europe &apos;s values .
Indeed , Europe has a large set of tools at its disposal ; it just needs to figure out how to use them .
If it can , it will be better able to respond not only to the Russian challenge , but also to many of the other challenges that characterize today &apos;s rapidly shifting global environment .
A Failed Global Recovery
NEW HAVEN - The global economy is in the midst of its second growth scare in less than two years .
Get used to it .
In a post @-@ crisis world , these are the footprints of a failed recovery .
The reason is simple .
The typical business cycle has a natural cushioning mechanism that wards off unexpected blows .
The deeper the downturn , the more powerful the snapback , and the greater the cumulative forces of self @-@ sustaining revival .
Vigorous V @-@ shaped rebounds have a built @-@ in resilience that allows them to shrug off shocks relatively easily .
But a post @-@ crisis recovery is a very different animal .
As Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff have shown in their book This Time is Different , over the long sweep of history , post @-@ crisis recoveries in output and employment tend to be decidedly subpar .
Such weak recoveries , by definition , lack the cushion of V @-@ shaped rebounds .
Consequently , external shocks quickly expose their vulnerability .
If the shocks are sharp enough - and if they hit a weakened global economy that is approaching its &quot; stall speed &quot; of around 3 % annual growth - the relapse could turn into the dreaded double @-@ dip recession .
That is the risk today .
There can be no mistaking the decidedly subpar character of the current global recovery .
Superficially , the numbers look strong : world GDP rebounded by 5.1 % in 2010 , and is expected to rise another 4.3 % in 2011 , according to the International Monetary Fund .
But because these gains follow the massive contraction that occurred during the Great Recession of 2008 @-@ 2009 , they are a far cry from the trajectory of a classic V @-@ shaped recovery .
Indeed , if the IMF &apos;s latest forecast proves correct , global GDP at the end of 2012 will still be about 2.2 percentage points below the level that would have been reached had the world remained on its longer @-@ term 3.7 % annual @-@ growth path .
Even if the global economy holds at a 4.3 % cruise speed - a big &quot; if , &quot; in my view - it will remain below its trend @-@ line potential for over eight years in a row , through 2015 .
This protracted &quot; global output gap &quot; underscores the absence of a cushion in today &apos;s world economy , as well as its heightened sensitivity to shocks .
And there have certainly been numerous such blows in recent months - from Europe &apos;s sovereign @-@ debt crisis and Japan &apos;s natural disasters to sharply higher oil prices and another setback in the US housing recovery .
While none of these shocks appears to have been severe enough to have derailed the current global recovery , the combined effect is worrisome , especially in a still @-@ weakened post @-@ crisis world .
Most pundits dismiss the possibility of a double @-@ dip recession .
Labeling the current slowdown a temporary &quot; soft patch , &quot; they pin their optimism on the inevitable rebound that follows any shock .
For example , a boost is expected from Japan &apos;s reconstruction and supply @-@ chain resumption .
Another assist may come from America &apos;s recent move to tap its strategic petroleum reserves in an effort to push oil prices lower .
But in the aftermath of the worst crisis and recession of modern times - when shocks can push an already weakened global economy to its tipping point a lot faster than would be the case under a stronger growth scenario - the escape velocity of self @-@ sustaining recovery is much harder to achieve .
The soft patch may be closer to a quagmire .
This conclusion should not be lost on high @-@ flying emerging @-@ market economies , especially in Asia - currently the world &apos;s fastest @-@ growing region and the leader of what many now call a two @-@ speed world .
Yet with exports still close to a record 45 % of pan @-@ regional GDP , Asia can hardly afford to take external shocks lightly - especially if they hit an already weakened baseline growth trajectory in the post @-@ crisis developed world .
The recent slowdown in Chinese industrial activity underscores this very risk .
Policymakers are ill prepared to cope with a steady stream of growth scares .
They continue to favor strategies that are better suited to combating crisis than to promoting post @-@ crisis healing .
That is certainly true of the United States .
While the US Federal Reserve Board &apos;s first round of quantitative easing was effective in ending a wrenching crisis , the second round has done little to sustain meaningful recovery in the labor market and the real economy .
America &apos;s zombie consumers need to repair their damaged balance sheets , and US workers need to align new skills with new jobs .
Open @-@ ended liquidity injections accomplish neither .
European authorities are caught up in a similar mindset .
Mistaking a solvency problem for a liquidity shortfall , Europe has become hooked on the drip feed of bailouts .
However , this works only if countries like Greece grow their way out of a debt trap or abrogate their deeply entrenched social contracts .
The odds on either are exceedingly poor .
The likelihood of recurring growth scares for the next several years implies little hope for new and creative approaches to post @-@ crisis monetary and fiscal policies .
Driven by short @-@ term electoral horizons , policymakers repeatedly seek a quick fix - another bailout or one more liquidity injection .
Yet , in the aftermath of a balance @-@ sheet recession in the US , and in the midst of a debt trap in Europe , that approach is doomed to failure .
Liquidity injections and bailouts serve only one purpose - to buy time .
Yet time is not the answer for economies desperately in need of the structural repairs of fiscal consolidation , private @-@ sector deleveraging , labor @-@ market reforms , or improved competitiveness .
Nor does time cushion anemic post @-@ crisis recoveries from the inevitable next shock .
It &apos;s hard to know when the next shock will hit , or what form it will take ; otherwise , it wouldn &apos;t be a shock .
But , as night follows day , such a disruption is inevitable .
With policymakers reluctant to focus on the imperatives of structural healing , the result will be yet another growth scare - or worse .
A failed recovery underscores the risks of an increasingly treacherous endgame in today &apos;s post @-@ crisis world .
A Fair Deal for Turkey
Turkey has been given what looks like an ultimatum from the EU Commission : open your ports for ships from Cyprus within a month , or you may risk a halt to the EU accession talks now underway .
At the same time , the Commission &apos;s latest report on Turkey &apos;s progress toward accession notes that political reforms have slowed down , further calling into question the country &apos;s future EU membership .
The Commission &apos;s progress report will be dealt with by the European Council next month .
At that meeting , European leaders should ask themselves the following questions : Has the EU given Turkey a fair deal in the case of Cyprus ?
Has the EU &apos;s behavior been consistent in supporting political reform in Turkey ?
What are the EU &apos;s long @-@ term interests vis @-@ à @-@ vis Turkey ?
If the answers to the first two questions are &quot; no &quot; - as I believe they are - the third question becomes vitally important .
True , Turkey has closed its ports to ships from ( Greek ) Cyprus , and this is a violation of agreements .
But it is also true that the northern Turkish part of Cyprus is denied access to free trade and other benefits from EU @-@ membership .
This is because Cyprus remains a divided island .
It was assumed that Cyprus should be united when the country joined the EU in 2004 .
A United Nations plan for unification was accepted by the Turkish part .
But the Greek Cypriots voted against the plan because their leaders did not live up to the implicit deal with the EU to support it .
Nevertheless , Cyprus became an EU member - but only the Greek part .
This was clearly a mistake , because it made the EU part of the conflict .
It gave Greek Cypriot leaders the possibility of blocking progress in negotiations between the EU and Turkey .
So how can Turkey under these conditions maintain confidence in the EU &apos;s fairness ?
Political and legal reforms in Turkey in recent years have been remarkably far @-@ reaching , for they have clearly been spurred by Turks &quot; wish to move closer to the EU .
But Turkish public support for EU membership has fallen dramatically as Turks have grown to feel that they are not being given a fair deal .
This has given new strength to those who want Turkey to develop in another direction , towards a more Islamic society instead of a modern secular state .
Therefore , the recent lack of progress in Turkey &apos;s reform process can to a large extent be explained by the EU &apos;s behavior .
This leaves us with the third question : what kind of Turkey does the EU want ?
There should be no doubt about the answer : it is clearly in the EU &apos;s interest to see Turkey &apos;s democracy and economy continue to strengthen .
More than 40 years ago , it was promised that once Turkey lives up to the preconditions for membership , it will be welcome in the EU .
It is high time that European leaders take this promise seriously .
It is a sad fact that a large majority of voters in the EU are against Turkish membership .
But they are reacting to the current situation .
When they are asked if they would like a reformed Turkey as a partner - a Turkey that lives up fully to the conditions for membership described in the Copenhagen Criteria ( democracy , rule of law , respect for human rights , and an effective market economy ) - many more are inclined to say yes .
European leaders must therefore take up two challenges .
First , they should say clearly to their own voters that the EU must live up to its promises to Turkey , and that this is in the larger interest of all Europeans .
Second , they should give Turkey a fair deal in the negotiations .
The first litmus test on European leadership concerns the practical problem of access to harbors .
Here the Finns , who chair the EU right now , have taken an initiative to implement a pragmatic solution that takes into consideration both sides in the conflict .
The Finnish initiative should be given strong support from all European leaders .
At the same time , a new effort should be made to bring life to the UN &apos;s proposals regarding Cyprus .
If this means putting pressure on some actors within the EU &apos;s own ranks , so be it .
A Fair Deal on Climate Change
The agreement on climate change reached at Heiligendamm by the G8 leaders merely sets the stage for the real debate to come : how will we divide up the diminishing capacity of the atmosphere to absorb our greenhouse gases ?
The G8 leaders agreed to seek &quot; substantial &quot; cuts in greenhouse gas emissions and to give &quot; serious consideration &quot; to the goal of halving such emissions by 2050 - an outcome hailed as a triumph by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and British Prime Minister Tony Blair .
Yet the agreement commits no one to any specific targets , least of all the United States , whose president , George W. Bush , will no longer be in office in 2009 , when the tough decisions have to be made .
One could reasonably ask why anyone thinks such a vague agreement is any kind of advance at all .
At the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 , 189 countries , including the US , China , India , and all the European nations , signed the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change , thereby agreeing to stabilize greenhouse gases &quot; at a low enough level to prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system . &quot;
Fifteen years later , no country has done that .
US per capita greenhouse gas emissions , already the highest of any major nation when Bush took office , have continued to rise .
In March , a leaked Bush administration report showed that US emissions were expected to rise almost as fast over the next decade as they did during the previous decade .
Now we have yet another agreement to do what these same nations said they would do 15 years ago .
That &apos;s a triumph ?
If Bush or his successor wants to ensure that the next round of talks fails , that will be easy enough .
In justifying his refusal to sign the Kyoto Protocol , Bush has always referred to the fact that it did not commit China and India to mandatory emission limits .
Now , in response to suggestions by Bush and other G8 leaders that the larger developing nations must be part of the solution to climate change , Ma Kai , the head of China &apos;s National Development and Reform Commission , has said that China will not commit to any quantified emissions reduction targets .
Likewise , the spokesman of India &apos;s foreign minister , Navtej Sarna , has said that his country would reject such mandatory restrictions .
Are China and India being unreasonable ?
Their leaders have consistently pointed out that our current problems are the result of the gases emitted by the industrialized nations over the past century .
That is true : most of those gases are still in the atmosphere , and without them the problem would not be nearly as urgent as it now is .
China and India claim the right to proceed with industrialization and development as the developed nations did , unhampered by limits on their greenhouse gas emissions .
China , India , and other developing nations , have a point - or rather , three points .
First , if we apply the principle &quot; You broke it , you fix it , &quot; then the developed nations have to take responsibility for our &quot; broken &quot; atmosphere , which can no longer absorb more greenhouse gases without the world &apos;s climate changing .
Second , even if we wipe the slate clean and forget about who caused the problem , it remains true that the typical US resident is responsible for about six times more greenhouse gas emissions than the typical Chinese , and as much as 18 times more than the average Indian .
Third , the richer nations are better able than less well @-@ off nations to absorb the costs of fixing the problem without causing serious harm to their populations .
But it is also true that if China and India continue to increase their output of greenhouse gases , they will eventually undo all the good that would be achieved by deep emissions cuts in the industrialized nations .
This year or next , China will overtake the US as the world &apos;s biggest greenhouse gas emitter - on a national , rather than a per capita basis , of course .
In 25 years , according to Fatih Birol , chief economist at the International Energy Agency , China &apos;s emissions could be double those of the US , Europe , and Japan combined .
But there is a solution that is both fair and practical :
Establish the total amount of greenhouse gases that we can allow to be emitted without causing the earth &apos;s average temperature to rise more than two degrees Celsius ( 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit ) , the point beyond which climate change could become extremely dangerous .
Divide that total by the world &apos;s population , thus calculating what each person &apos;s share of the total is .
Allocate to each country a greenhouse gas emissions quota equal to the country &apos;s population , multiplied by the per person share .
Finally , allow countries that need a higher quota to buy it from those that emit less than their quota .
The fairness of giving every person on earth an equal share of the atmosphere &apos;s capacity to absorb our greenhouse gas emissions is difficult to deny .
Why should anyone have a greater entitlement than others to use the earth &apos;s atmosphere ?
But , in addition to being fair , this scheme also has practical benefits .
It would give developing nations a strong incentive to accept mandatory quotas , because if they can keep their per capita emissions low , they will have excess emissions rights to sell to the industrialized nations .
The rich countries will benefit , too , because they will be able to choose their preferred mix of reducing emissions and buying up emissions rights from developing nations .
A Farewell to ( Glorious ) War
In recent days , Italy &apos;s government fell after losing a parliamentary vote on the country &apos;s troop deployment in Afghanistan , while Britain and Denmark announced that they are to begin withdrawing their troops from Iraq .
Whereas the Bush administration is deploying an additional 21,000 American soldiers in Iraq , and is pushing for more allied troops in Afghanistan , America &apos;s allies are rejecting its Middle East policy .
They are increasingly convinced that &quot; victory &quot; will be elusive in any asymmetric conflict between states , however powerful , and religiously driven armed insurgents .
Donald Rumsfeld &apos;s dogma of military &quot; transformation &quot; - the technological upgrading of an army &apos;s capacity to enable decisive victory with fewer troops - failed resoundingly in Iraq .
Nor could Israel , with its overwhelming technological advantage , defeat Hezbollah in Lebanon .
More rockets and missiles fell on northern Israel in 33 days than hit Britain during all of World War II .
So the Israelis now must reckon with an entirely new phenomenon : an asymmetric entity , Hezbollah , with nation @-@ state firepower .
So the fierce debate over whether to increase the size of American ground forces in Iraq is beside the point .
Neither the Soviet experience in Afghanistan in the 1980 &quot; s nor NATO &apos;s today vindicates the claim that troop numbers are what matter most on the modern battlefield .
When geo @-@ strategic military front lines are non @-@ existent , as in Kosovo , Afghanistan , and Iraq , mass no longer equals victory .
The great military thinker Carl von Clausewitz &apos;s notion of &quot; decisive battles &quot; as the &quot; center of gravity &quot; of war is simply irrelevant to conflicts that have no visible &quot; center of gravity . &quot;
Indeed , while wars from the time of Hannibal &apos;s defeat of the Romans in 216 B.C. to the Gulf War of 1991 had this center of gravity , with a massive concentration of force capable of bringing an enemy to its knees , such industrial inter @-@ state wars have now become an historical anachronism .
Most states nowadays lie within borders that are widely accepted as legitimate , and they increasingly abide by international norms of behavior in times of war .
In fact , the obligation of states to abide by humanitarian rules of conduct while their enemies are free to barbarize warfare is what makes asymmetric wars especially insoluble .
Moreover , in an era of global media and international war crimes courts , the criteria for states &quot; use of military force have become more complex than ever .
Inter @-@ state combat may still occur where strategic front lines can be found , such as Israel &apos;s border with Syria , India &apos;s border with Pakistan , and the border dividing the two Koreas .
In such cases , war , as the Egyptians showed in 1973 , might still serve as an avenue to resolving a conflict .
The Syrians might be tempted to launch an offensive against Israel with the objective of breaking the deadlock over the future of the Golan Heights .
However , in the case of Kashmir , the asymmetric conflict currently fought by proxies and terrorist groups might not degenerate into all @-@ out war precisely because India and Pakistan have mutual nuclear deterrence .
This changing nature of the battlefield essentially means that war as a conclusive event in an international conflict has become obsolete .
The facile Clausewitzian wisdom that military action ultimately leads to a political solution is no longer convincing .
&quot; Victory &quot; cannot bring peace , simply because there will always be a war after the war .
Thus , for example , the conventional war in Kosovo lasted for two months , only to usher in a six @-@ year asymmetric conflict .
Likewise , America &apos;s three @-@ week &quot; shock and awe &quot; campaign in Iraq in 2003 ended in &quot; victory , &quot; but opened the gates of hell for occupiers and ordinary Iraqis alike .
And six months after the merciless pounding of southern Lebanon , Hezbollah is as strong as it was before .
Nor does the return of the Taliban in Afghanistan six years after their overthrow now seen too far @-@ fetched .
It is during the war after the war that the occupier &apos;s inferiority is revealed , with constant reinforcements increasing the number of targets for the insurgents far more quickly than the occupier can adapt to the changing battlefield .
The insurgents in Iraq , as the British admit , were able in just three years to cope with their enemies &quot; technological superiority in a way that the IRA in Northern Ireland was unable to do in 30 years .
The Iraq war and Israel &apos;s wars with Hamas and Hezbollah show the limits of what military power can achieve , as well as vindicate diplomacy and conflict resolution .
When it comes to tackling complex political and cultural conflicts , forging international and regional alliances around a legitimate objective is more important than sheer military capacity .
That said , it would be dangerously naïve to believe that the exercise of power and the capacity to intimidate are unnecessary .
But the objectives of the use of force need to be linked to the recognition that in today &apos;s asymmetric conflicts , victory is no longer achieved on the battlefield .
Only better @-@ informed foreign policies that can address the genuine anxieties of civilizations in crisis will yield more sustainable results .
A Field Guide to Israeli Hawks
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon &apos;s announcement that he plans to dismantle Jewish settlements in the Gaza Strip , as well as some settlements in the West Bank , has shocked and caught people off guard both in Israel and around the world .
Many denounced Sharon &apos;s plan as a trick .
But that surprise was wrong @-@ headed from the start .
Despite the way it often looks to outsiders , debates in Israel about the future of the occupied territories have never been confined to hawks and doves .
Like everything in Israel , the process is more complicated , especially where the hawks are concerned .
Basically , there are two species of Israeli hawks : call one kind ideological and the other strategic .
Ideological hawks view the occupied territories as an integral part of the historical Land of Israel , the homeland of the Jewish people .
For them , the territories are part of the Jewish patrimony , which is why they insist on referring to the West Bank by its Hebrew historical appellation - Judea and Samaria .
Not all ideological hawks are religious , although those who are base their claim on divine promises and prophecies .
But many ideological hawks are secular nationalists , and their jargon is similar to that of typical Central and Eastern European nationalists .
Former Prime Minister Menachem Begin and Yitzhak Shamir belonged to that category .
Ideological hawks usually come from the National @-@ Religious Party and from members of the Likud .
They are inspired by the nationalist ideology connected with Vladimir Jabotinsky , who founded &quot; Revisionist &quot; Zionism as a challenge to the more moderate version espoused by Israel &apos;s Founding Fathers like Chaim Weizmann and David Ben @-@ Gurion .
Then there are the strategic hawks .
For them , given Israel &apos;s narrow and vulnerable geographic shape and continuing Arab enmity , controlling the West Bank and Gaza is not an ideological imperative , but is driven by security considerations .
For them , Jewish settlements in the territories are not a return to historical lands , but security outposts , aimed at preventing - or repelling from a better strategic position - an attack on the Israeli heartland .
They may be right or wrong in this assessment , but it is not an ideological one .
Ariel Sharon , who comes from a military background - he grew up in a social milieu much nearer to Labor than to Jabotinsky &apos;s ideas - is a strategic hawk .
For ideological hawks , compromises are treason : how can you jeopardize the historical patrimony of the Jewish people , let alone God &apos;s promise to Abraham ?
Strategic hawks , however , are open to practical bargains and compromises - if the circumstances are right and if the security considerations justify it in their eyes .
It is in this context that Sharon &apos;s moves should be seen .
He was elected on the promise that he would bring peace and security .
He has brought neither .
With the defeat and demise of Saddam Hussein , the danger of an &quot; Eastern front &quot; against Israel has diminished .
Absent a Palestinian partner , and given continuing Palestinian terrorism - which Israel &apos;s harsh responses fail to quell - what Sharon appears to be doing now follows from his strategic @-@ oriented thinking : set up an effective barrier , move some of the isolated and strategically untenable settlements , and wait for another day .
If one follows Sharon &apos;s statements in the last year , a clear pattern emerges .
First , he admitted that &quot; eventually &quot; a Palestinian state would emerge - something unthinkable for dyed @-@ in @-@ the @-@ wool ideological hawks .
A few months later , he scandalized his own Likud party conference by stating that occupation is wrong and untenable - another shock for those who always speak of &quot; liberated &quot; rather than &quot; occupied &quot; territories .
Last December , he explicitly stated that Israel is headed towards unilateral disengagement , and that this would entail the &quot; relocation &quot; of some settlements .
Although this was still merely verbiage , it was novel language for a Likud prime minister .
Sharon &apos;s latest statements , though , explicitly specified the settlements to be evacuated ; the Director of the National Security Council , General Giora Eiland , was appointed to chair an inter @-@ ministerial Relocation Committee and work out plans for conducting the evacuations , including compensation for relocated settlers .
All of this has radically altered Israel &apos;s domestic political map .
Some ideological hawks in Sharon &apos;s government threatened to resign ; Shimon Peres announced that Labor will offer Sharon a parliamentary safety net ; there is even talk about Labor joining a national unity government .
The test , of course , is not in the planning , but in the implementation of withdrawal , and the road is long and bumpy .
Sharon &apos;s timing may have been determined by his problems with police investigations into alleged corruption .
Yet anyone who would like to predict Sharon &apos;s future behavior should remember that unlike Begin and Shamir , Sharon comes from the military , and for him security - not ideology - is supreme .
So his apparent pragmatism should come as no surprise .
A Foreign Policy for New and Old Europe
Watching the news from Iraq , I recall when I was Poland &apos;s Prime Minister during the Gulf War in 1991 .
I watched from home on CNN as the first cruise missiles hit Baghdad .
Hours later our military informed me that armed conflict was underway in Iraq . &quot; Yes , I know , &quot; I said . &quot; I &apos;ve been watching the bombardment on TV . &quot;
Twelve years later , Poland &apos;s Prime Minister didn &apos;t need a belated call from his military to know that war was underway in Iraq .
All the details of the attack were provided in advance by the US , now Poland &apos;s NATO ally .
Indeed , Poland has secured a leading role in Iraq &apos;s occupation .
What a distance Poland has travelled since communism &apos;s collapse in 1989 !
Little of this , however , is the result of design , for ( unfortunately ) we in Poland have not thought through what sort of foreign policy we need as a member of NATO and putative member of the European Union .
We remain narrowly focussed on whether an initiative will be immediately good or bad for us .
Couple this with a form of foreign policy schizophrenia--some Poles think that by &quot; simply existing &quot; we influence Europe &apos;s fate ; others suffer crippling pessimism , consigning Poland to permanent &quot; second @-@ class &quot; status--and you have a recipe for inertia .
Our attitude seems to be that somehow things will sort themselves out .
Much of Europe seems to be stuck in the same mindset : we say that we want a common foreign and security policy , but we do nothing about it until a crisis emerges .
Then we squabble about what to do .
The time for such laxity is over .
For Poland and the other countries of East @-@ Central Europe that have or are about to join NATO , membership in the Alliance didn &apos;t really require debate .
Our histories of oppression by powerful neighbours told us that collective security within NATO was the
EU membership and the global war on terror , however , demand a more deeply considered response .
Why ?
Because EU membership affects every aspect of a state , economy , and society , while the war on terror demands a completely new way to conduct diplomacy and security policy .
Today &apos;s crisis in transatlantic relations , and our accidental involvement in it as part of Donald Rumsfeld &apos;s &quot; New Europe , &quot; means that Poland ( like every other European state ) must now decide what it really wants from the EU and NATO .
We must consider both our attitude to global problems that were once deemed peripheral to European interests , as well what it really means to be an EU partner .
Only answers to these questions can reconcile the divide between the &quot; new &quot; and &quot; old &quot; Europe , as well as the new and old Atlantic worlds .
Poland as an ally of the US is not the real headache facing President Jacques Chirac or Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder .
Instead , the French and German leaders are really responding to the growing unpredictability of today &apos;s emerging European order .
They see new players ( say , Spain ) rising to shape EU policy , particularly foreign policy , and sense that their traditional leadership is being challenged .
But an EU with 10 new members simply cannot be run as it has for decades .
So the challenge to France and Germany does not arise because Poland is some sort of American &quot; Trojan Horse . &quot;
Instead , the EU &apos;s structure now demands not only a new consensus about Europe &apos;s role in the world , but also new means to achieve consensus . History cannot be put on hold as Europe sorts out its internal balance of power .
The world needs a united continent , ready to go into action .
That consensus must include the US .
During the Cold War , most Europeans tolerated America &apos;s tendency to lead unilaterally , because of the Soviet threat and the preponderance of US power .
But America is having a hard time understanding the new circumstances of the post @-@ Cold war era .
Its difficulties are exacerbated by the dramatic disparity in military forces on either side of the Atlantic , and its belief that Europe &apos;s ambitions to become a military power will come to nothing because Europeans won &apos;t spend the money necessary to achieve that goal .
Here is where Poland can help bridge the Atlantic divide and forge a European consensus .
September 1939 taught every Pole that military power must be real to be effective .
Intentions don &apos;t deter invasions .
As Danish Premier Anders Fogh Rasmussen recently said , &quot; France and Germany are not in a position to guarantee our country &apos;s security .
The US is , but security does not come free of charge . &quot;
Most Poles think that Poland &apos;s situation is akin to Denmark &apos;s .
Indeed , all of Europe is in thrall to American power .
But this dependence should not disguise the fact that there is a commonality of foreign policy interests between Europe and America .
If the EU builds its foreign and security policy on the basis of recognition of this truth , many of today &apos;s divisions will disappear .
The EU &apos;s foreign policy should be guided by the following goals :
fight terrorism ;
prevent local conflict ;
promote human rights and democracy ;
oblige unpredictable countries to become responsible ;
maintain close cooperation between Europe and the US ;
help poor countries .
Polish foreign policy , like that of the EU , can only be effective in the long term if it takes realistic steps--and spends the necessary money--to realize these objectives .
They are the only possible bedrock in transatlantic relations , in an expanded Union , and in relations between the &quot; New &quot; and &quot; Old &quot; Europe .
A Fracking Good Story
PRAGUE - Weather conditions around the world this summer have provided ample fodder for the global warming debate .
Droughts and heat waves are a harbinger of our future , carbon cuts are needed now more than ever , and yet meaningful policies have not been enacted .
But , beyond this well @-@ trodden battlefield , something amazing has happened : Carbon @-@ dioxide emissions in the United States have dropped to their lowest level in 20 years .
Estimating on the basis of data from the US Energy Information Agency ( EIA ) from the first five months of 2012 , this year &apos;s expected CO2 emissions have declined by more than 800 million tons , or 14 % , from their peak in 2007 .
The cause is an unprecedented switch to natural gas , which emits 45 % less carbon per energy unit .
The US used to generate about half its electricity from coal , and roughly 20 % from gas .
Over the past five years , those numbers have changed , first slowly and now dramatically : in April of this year , coal &apos;s share in power generation plummeted to just 32 % , on par with gas .
America &apos;s rapid switch to natural gas is the result of three decades of technological innovation , particularly the development of hydraulic fracturing , or &quot; fracking , &quot; which has opened up large new resources of previously inaccessible shale gas .
Despite some legitimate concerns about safety , it is hard to overstate the overwhelming benefits .
For starters , fracking has caused gas prices to drop dramatically .
Adjusted for inflation , gas has not been this cheap for the past 35 years , with the price this year 3 @-@ 5 times lower than it was in the mid @-@ 2000 &quot; s .
And , while a flagging economy may explain a small portion of the drop in US carbon emissions , the EIA emphasizes that the major explanation is natural gas .
The reduction is even more impressive when one considers that 57 million additional energy consumers were added to the US population over the past two decades .
Indeed , US carbon emissions have dropped some 20 % per capita , and are now at their lowest level since Dwight D. Eisenhower left the White House in 1961 .
David Victor , an energy expert at the University of California , San Diego , estimates that the shift from coal to natural gas has reduced US emissions by 400 @-@ 500 megatonnes ( Mt ) of CO2 per year .
To put that number in perspective , it is about twice the total effect of the Kyoto Protocol on carbon emissions in the rest of the world , including the European Union .
It is tempting to believe that renewable energy sources are responsible for emissions reductions , but the numbers clearly say otherwise .
Accounting for a reduction of 50 Mt of CO2 per year , America &apos;s 30,000 wind turbines reduce emissions by just one @-@ tenth the amount that natural gas does .
Biofuels reduce emissions by only ten Mt , and solar panels by a paltry three Mt .
This flies in the face of conventional thinking , which continues to claim that mandating carbon reductions - through cap @-@ and @-@ trade or a carbon tax - is the only way to combat climate change .
But , based on Europe &apos;s experience , such policies are precisely the wrong way to address global warming .
Since 1990 , the EU has heavily subsidized solar and wind energy at a cost of more than $ 20 billion annually .
Yet its per capita CO2 emissions have fallen by less than half of the reduction achieved in the US - even in percentage terms , the US is now doing better .
Because of broad European skepticism about fracking , there is no gas miracle in the EU , while the abundance of heavily subsidized renewables has caused over @-@ achievement of the CO2 target .
Along with the closure of German nuclear power stations , this has led , ironically , to a resurgence of coal .
Well @-@ meaning US politicians have likewise shown how not to tackle global warming with subsidies and tax breaks .
The relatively small reduction in emissions achieved through wind power costs more than $ 3.3 billion annually , and far smaller reductions from ethanol ( biofuels ) and solar panels cost at least $ 8.5 and $ 3 billion annually .
Estimates suggest that using carbon taxes to achieve a further 330 Mt CO2 reduction in the EU would cost $ 250 billion per year . Meanwhile , the fracking bonanza in the US not only delivers a much greater reduction for free , but also creates long @-@ term social benefits through lower energy costs .
The amazing truth is that fracking has succeeded where Kyoto and carbon taxes have failed .
As shown in a study by the Breakthrough Institute , fracking was built on substantial government investment in technological innovation for three decades .
Climate economists repeatedly have pointed out that such energy innovation is the most effective climate solution , because it is the surest way to drive the price of future green energy sources below that of fossil fuels .
By contrast , subsidizing current , ineffective solar power or ethanol mostly wastes money while benefiting special interests .
Fracking is not a panacea , but it really is by far this decade &apos;s best green @-@ energy option .
A Free Lunch for America
BERKELEY - Former US Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers had a good line at the International Monetary Fund meetings this year : governments , he said , are trying to treat a broken ankle when the patient is facing organ failure . Summers was criticizing Europe &apos;s focus on the second @-@ order issue of Greece while far graver imbalances - between the EU &apos;s north and south , and between reckless banks &quot; creditors and governments that failed to regulate properly - worsen with each passing day .
But , on the other side of the Atlantic , Americans have no reason to feel smug .
Summers could have used the same metaphor to criticize the United States , where the continued focus on the long @-@ run funding dilemmas of social insurance is sucking all of the oxygen out of efforts to deal with America &apos;s macroeconomic and unemployment crisis .
The US government can currently borrow for 30 years at a real ( inflation @-@ adjusted ) interest rate of 1 % per year .
Suppose that the US government were to borrow an extra $ 500 billion over the next two years and spend it on infrastructure - even unproductively , on projects for which the social rate of return is a measly 25 % per year .
Suppose that - as seems to be the case - the simple Keynesian government @-@ expenditure multiplier on this spending is only two .
In that case , the $ 500 billion of extra federal infrastructure spending over the next two years would produce $ 1 trillion of extra output of goods and services , generate approximately seven million person @-@ years of extra employment , and push down the unemployment rate by two percentage points in each of those years .
And , with tighter labor @-@ force attachment on the part of those who have jobs , the unemployment rate thereafter would likely be about 0.1 percentage points lower in the indefinite future .
The impressive gains don &apos;t stop there .
Better infrastructure would mean an extra $ 20 billion a year of income and social welfare .
A lower unemployment rate into the future would mean another $ 20 billion a year in higher production .
And half of the extra $ 1 trillion of goods and services would show up as consumption goods and services for American households .
In sum , on the benefits side of the equation : more jobs now , $ 500 billion of additional consumption of goods and services over the next two years , and then a $ 40 billion a year flow of higher incomes and production each year thereafter .
So , what are the likely costs of an extra $ 500 billion in infrastructure spending over the next two years ?
For starters , the $ 500 billion of extra government spending would likely be offset by $ 300 billion of increased tax collections from higher economic activity .
So the net result would be a $ 200 billion increase in the national debt .
American taxpayers would then have to pay $ 2 billion a year in real interest on that extra national debt over the next 30 years , and then pay off or roll over the entire $ 200 billion .
The $ 40 billion a year of higher economic activity would , however , generate roughly $ 10 billion a year in additional tax revenue .
Using some of it to pay the real interest on the debt and saving the rest would mean that when the bill comes due , the tax @-@ financed reserves generated by the healthier economy would be more than enough to pay off the additional national debt .
In other words , taxpayers win , because the benefits from the healthier economy would more than compensate for the costs of servicing the higher national debt , enabling the government to provide more services without raising tax rates .
Households win , too , because they get to buy more and nicer things with their incomes .
Companies win , because goods and workers get to use the improved infrastructure .
The unemployed win , because some of them get jobs .
And even bond investors win , because they get their money back , with the interest for which they contracted .
So what is not to like ?
Nothing .
How , you might ask , can I say this ?
I am an economist - a professor of the Dismal Science , in which there are no free lunches , in which benefits are always balanced by costs , and in which stories that sound too good to be true almost inevitably are .
But there are two things different about today .
First , the US labor market is failing so badly that expanded government spending carries no resource cost to society as a whole .
Second , bond investors are being really stupid .
In a world in which the S &amp; amp ; P 500 has a 7 % annual earnings yield , nobody should be happy holding a US government 30 @-@ year inflation @-@ adjusted bond that yields 1 % per year .
That six @-@ percentage @-@ point difference in anticipated real yield is a measure of bond investors &quot; extraordinary and irrational panic .
They are willing to pay 6 % per year for &quot; safety . &quot;
Right now , however , the US government can manufacture &quot; safety &quot; out of thin air merely by printing bonds .
The government , too , would then win by pocketing that 6 % per year of value - though 30 years from now , bondholders who feel like winners now would most likely look at their portfolios &quot; extraordinarily poor performance of over 2011 @-@ 2041 and rue their strategy .
A French Cure for the Resource Curse
NEW YORK - The campaign to ensure that companies engaged in extractive activities disclose all of their payments in their host countries is gaining momentum - and France is leading the effort .
President Nicolas Sarkozy should be applauded for supporting a new initiative promoting strict transparency standards for petroleum , gas , and mining companies listed on European stock exchanges .
France , at the heart of the European Union and President of both the G @-@ 8 and G @-@ 20 this year , is in an exceptional position to encourage such a regulatory move .
With French leadership , 2011 offers a golden opportunity for the most important capital markets to adopt clear , precise rules requiring full financial disclosure by extractive @-@ industry companies to governmental authorities .
Oil , gas , and mining generate billions of dollars per year for governments and companies .
Moreover , these industries often play a central role in the economic development of resource @-@ rich countries .
Yet , despite great natural wealth , a majority of people in these countries lives in poverty .
The actual taxes and payments made by mining , oil , and other extractive @-@ industry companies to governments are usually a well @-@ kept secret , even though most of these governments claim to use the revenue for the public good .
In reality , in far too many countries , ordinary citizens do not benefit from any of this money ; in fact , they must bear the brunt of the environmental and social costs imposed by mining and drilling operations .
Indeed , these well @-@ kept industry and government secrets can have serious and widespread repercussions .
Witness the upheaval in North Africa and the Middle East .
In these countries , many of which are rich in oil and gas , citizens are staging protests against corruption and political repression .
At bottom , they are protesting against the mismanagement of their countries &quot; wealth and resources - with implications that affect the security and affordability of the entire world &apos;s energy supplies .
Transparency is an essential part of the solution . Citizens everywhere must be assured that oil and gas firms , as well as mining companies , publish all of their relevant financial information , broken down by country and by project , and including all payments made to host @-@ country public budgets .
If European regulators can agree on this requirement for all extractive @-@ industry companies listed on their stock exchanges , this transparency norm will be applied to companies regardless of where their headquarters are located .
Regulators must also stipulate that company reports be made available on a regular , timely basis , and that they are easily accessible and comparable across countries and other extractive companies .
The United States has already passed legislation requiring public disclosure of payments to governments , through the 2010 Dodd @-@ Frank law .
That law &apos;s requirement that companies fully disclose their revenue streams by country and by project applies to 90 % of international oil and gas companies and to eight of the ten largest mining companies .
This will help citizens track how that money is used , but it will not help them to assess whether their governments are collecting a fair share .
If the EU were to require companies to publish detailed information regarding production and operational numbers , financial and accounting balances , and payments to authorities , companies would become truly accountable to citizens , and government revenues would be augmented .
Such regulatory reform is now under consideration by the European Commission , and French support is imperative if the EU is to announce this month the necessary legislative moves to promote transparency .
French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde recently highlighted the necessity of promoting &quot; initiatives within industrial sectors that aim to enhance governance , integrity , and transparency in economic transactions . &quot;
At its just @-@ completed summit in Deauville , France , the G @-@ 8 called for the first time for mandatory reporting by oil , gas , and mining companies . This is an important advance , but , unfortunately , it is qualified by language that allows voluntary approaches as an alternative , and it focuses only on payments transparency .
Now the world must look to the G @-@ 20 summit in Cannes this November to make an unequivocal commitment to the reporting requirements needed , given that important emerging economies such as Brazil , India , and China , as well as South Africa and other resource @-@ rich African countries , will be at the table .
The importance of financial transparency in the extractive industries is not limited to one country or era - and it is too important to be left to voluntary efforts alone .
Greater accountability and stronger governance for such companies could potentially change lives , economies , and political systems around the world .
A French Presidential Primer
The late British Prime Minister Harold Wilson used to quip that &quot; a week is a long time in politics . &quot;
So , in the 30 or so weeks between now and the next French presidential election , any prediction made today could be reversed , and reversed again , before the vote .
But two candidates have emerged as clear and constant favorites in opinion polls : Nicolas Sarkozy on the right and Ségolène Royal on the left .
In fact , they have more in common than meets the eye , for each speaks of a rupture with the past while incarnating a form of continuity .
For Sarkozy , &quot; rupture &quot; reflects both mundanely tactical and deeply personal choices .
The 12 years of Jacques Chirac &apos;s presidency , together with France &apos;s tradition of alternation in power , suggests a victory for the left .
Positioning himself as the candidate who represents a sharp break with today &apos;s unpopular politics is the only means to escape that fate .
This is reflected in Sarkozy &apos;s openly pro @-@ American stance - an act of political courage in a France where anti @-@ Americanism is running high .
Sarkozy &apos;s message is that Chirac and Villepin were right in substance to oppose America &apos;s military adventure in Iraq , but that their style was disastrously wrong .
Thus , his deep admiration for &quot; American values , &quot; while sincere , implies no embrace of President George W. Bush .
It also reassures the French business community , which was shocked by Dominique de Villepin &apos;s flamboyant opposition to the United States when he was Chirac &apos;s foreign minister .
At home , Sarkozy has aimed his message particularly at the young , issuing a patriotic call to the values of work and discipline , a counter @-@ revolutionary revolution .
The revolution that must be overcome is that of May 1968 , whose leaders and supporters , according to Sarkozy , may have lost politically to de Gaulle , but deeply weakened France over the succeeding decades with their emphasis on &quot; false values . &quot;
By contrast , rebelling against one &apos;s parents &quot; generation and rediscovering traditional moral stances will save France - a message that is highly applicable to issues , such as education and immigration , that may dominate the electoral campaign .
In the case of Royal , the meaning of &quot; rupture &quot; is both more obvious and more visible .
She is seeking to become the first woman President of the French Republic .
To achieve her goal , she prefers to emphasize her &quot; essence , &quot; thereby countering Sarkozy &apos;s stress on his record as a &quot; doer . &quot;
Her appeal to voters is simple : &quot; I am a woman , and you have never tried a woman , so be modern and try one now . &quot;
Hiding behind the originality ( in French presidential politics ) of her gender , Royal has avoided specifying a detailed program .
When challenged by inquisitive journalists demanding greater precision about her policy agenda , her highly effective line of defense ( so far ! ) has been : &quot; You would not dare to ask me such a question if I were not a woman ! &quot;
Thus , Royal &apos;s program is her popularity .
In foreign policy , one can only guess what her priorities would be .
As far as Europe is concerned , she seems as &quot; agnostic &quot; as Sarkozy , who , like her , incarnates a new generation of &quot; post @-@ European &quot; leaders .
In terms of values , Royal , too , seems to represent a rupture with May 1968 , with her emphasis on discipline and family .
According to public opinion polls , Royal is the clear favorite of the left and the only candidate able to defeat Sarkozy .
Her support is particularly strong among women voters .
For the Socialist Party , which is eager to return to power but has not yet recovered from the humiliating defeat of Lionel Jospin in the first round of the presidential election in 2002 , the question is whether it can afford to resist the wave of favorable public opinion behind Royal .
In the opinion of Royal &apos;s many opponents among Socialist leaders and militants , the dominance of the media in the political process is leading to mediocrity : the qualities required to be elected are becoming nearly incompatible with those needed to govern .
According to Royal &apos;s Socialist critics , the &quot; Hollywoodization &quot; of politics from which she benefits entails a new approach in which leaders follow and followers lead .
But the same criticism can be directed at Sarkozy .
Moreover , both candidates embody continuity - with Chirac &apos;s Gaullist side for Sarkozy and with François Mitterrand for Royal - as much as rupture .
Royal openly claims Mitterand &apos;s legacy as she searches for legitimacy , while Sarkozy &apos;s rejection of Chirac &apos;s legacy has more to do with form than substance .
To a large extent , Sarkozy can be seen as Chirac with more , whereas Royal is clearly Mitterrand with less .
When the voters decide in the spring of 2007 , their choice may depend more on negative than positive considerations , as it did in 2002 , when Chirac faced the odious nationalist Jean @-@ Marie Le Pen in the second round .
As in 2002 , the winner next year will be whomever the electorate dislikes or fears less .
But one way or the other , personalities will prevail over programs .
A Fresh Start for China and Japan ?
Edmonton - Chinese President Hu Jintao will make a high @-@ profile visit to Japan from May 6 @-@ 10 , making him the second Chinese head of state ever to travel there .
The trip is being carefully managed by both countries , and is being watched closely around the world , with good reason : Sino @-@ Japanese relations over the past decade have been turbulent , to say the least .
When Hu &apos;s predecessor , Jiang Zemin , traveled to Japan ten years ago , bilateral relations were deteriorating : China was unhappy with the Japanese government &apos;s refusal to extend the same apology offered to South Korea for past aggression ; Japan was worried about a rising China and thus turning more confrontational .
The Japanese media &apos;s coverage of the visit was overwhelmingly negative , and it was remembered as a public @-@ relations disaster .
Hu succeeded Jiang in 2002 , almost as former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi was coming to power in Japan , and encouraged &quot; New Thinking &quot; in China &apos;s Japan policy , which would entail moving away from historical grievances and promoting better ties .
But , instead of accepting China &apos;s olive branch , Koizumi implemented a more nationalistic agenda , including annual visits to the Yasukuni Shine , which is regarded as a symbol of Japanese militarism by Japan &apos;s neighbors .
His hard @-@ line approach isolated Japan and angered China , leading to an outburst of anti @-@ Japanese demonstrations in China in 2005 .
But both Japan and China recognize that further tension will serve neither country &apos;s long @-@ term interests .
Koizumi &apos;s successors , Prime Ministers Shinzo Abe and Yasuo Fukuda , have sought to engage China over the past two years , with summits in Beijing and a successful visit by Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao to Japan last year .
Hu &apos;s trip is likely follow the example set by Wen .
He will emphasize common strategic interests , highlight mutual economic benefits , generate positive public opinion , and promote further exchanges .
Japan is not only one of China &apos;s largest trade and investment partners , it is also the most powerful neighbor with which China wants to be on good terms , partly to showcase that China &apos;s rise is not a threat to Asia and the rest of the world .
Japan , whose economic recovery is attributable largely to its deepening ties with China in recent years , is also eager to demonstrate that it regards China not as a threat but as an opportunity , as least in economic terms .
It was 30 years ago that former Prime Minister Takeo Fukuda , the father of today &apos;s prime minister , signed a Peace and Friendship Treaty with China .
The two governments will certainly use Hu &apos;s visit to celebrate the anniversary with new programs designed to enhance bilateral understanding and friendship .
But , unlike three decades ago , when the Japanese regarded China as one of their most favored countries , public opinion in both countries nowadays registers more negative feelings than positive ones .
Behind the smiles , the polite interactions , and the cautiously worded diplomatic language , strong undercurrents of suspicion remain .
One problem is the disputed waters of the East China Sea .
Despite new joint projects in energy efficiency and environmental protection , areas in which China ranks Japan as the best performer among industrialized countries , the two sides remain in bitterly divided over these territorial waters , which contain huge potential oil , gas , and other mineral deposits .
Even after many rounds of talks , no resolution is in sight , and Hu &apos;s visit is not expected to produce any breakthroughs .
Then there are strategic suspicions .
Fukuda has dropped Abe &apos;s talk about an &quot; arch of freedom &quot; - an effort to forge a bloc with the United States , Australia , and India .
But Japan remains concerned about China &apos;s rapidly modernizing military , while China worries about a potential US @-@ Japan containment strategy for China , especially in the case of a crisis in the Taiwan Straits .
So , although both sides endorse the idea of a &quot; mutually beneficial strategic relationship , &quot; and despite progress bilateral on military exchanges , mutual trust and confidence @-@ building have a long way to go .
Moreover , today &apos;s &quot; warm politics , cool economics &quot; trend is the reverse of the &quot; cold politics , warm economics &quot; pattern under Koizumi .
Last year , Japan &apos;s committed investment projects in China fell 24 % from 2006 , while actual investment volume decreased by 25 % , partly owing to regulatory changes in China regarding foreign investment .
Recent food safety issues , such as the &quot; poisoned dumplings &quot; cases , have clearly heightened the Japanese public &apos;s sensitivity about Chinese exports .
Finally , historical issues could still resurface to cause new problems .
While Fukuda has made it clear that he will not visit the Yasukuni Shrine , 160 other parliamentarians paid homage at the site last month , an indication that conservative forces in Japan remain strong and that future prime ministers may not abstain from visiting Yasukuni .
And Japan has so far failed to live up to its treaty obligations to clean up between 700,000 and two million chemical weapons that were abandoned in China by the Japanese army at the end of World War II , another potential flash point if any of these weapons causes casualties in China .
A Fresh Start for Europe in Latin America ?
MILAN - By 2050 , Brazil and Mexico will be among the world &apos;s six leading economies , according to analysts at the investment bank Goldman Sachs .
Does the European Union care ?
Is Latin America to be Europe &apos;s next missed business opportunity ?
Latin America has a population of 550 million , with average yearly per capita income of $ 4,000 , immense natural resources , and substantial human capital .
It accounts for 8 % of world production and grew by more than 5 % in each of the past three years .
Although the United States remains the main destination of Latin American and Caribbean exports , Asia is becoming an increasingly important market for goods based on natural resources .
During the past four years , Latin America attracted an annual average of $ 61 billion in foreign direct investment , 60 % of which went to Brazil and Mexico .
In the 1990 &quot; s , foreign investors were chiefly attracted by privatization programs in the region , but more recently mergers and acquisitions and greenfield projects have been the most common type of investment .
Predictably , Spain is the most important European investor in the region , though several important Spanish operations have recently passed to Italian companies , among them the utility Endesa , acquired by Enel , which is now the biggest private energy distributor in Latin America .
Meanwhile , Latin American businesses have been increasing their own foreign investments .
In 2006 , Brazil invested $ 28.2 billion abroad , compared to inflows of $ 18.8 billion .
Indeed , emerging giants from Latin America and Asia will be at the center of worldwide investment in the coming decades .
In 2006 , Italy &apos;s Fiat Group and India &apos;s Tata Motors established a joint venture to make passenger vehicles and engines in India .
The following year , they extended their partnership to Latin America , investing $ 80 million in production of a Tata pick @-@ up truck at Fiat &apos;s factory in Cordoba , Argentina .
It is to be hoped that many more major European corporations will follow suit .
But small and medium sized enterprises ( SMEs ) - the majority of firms in both Latin America and Europe - find it difficult to trade and invest at international level , in part because of high transaction and information costs .
In Europe , clusters of SMEs appear able to achieve economies of scale and scope , and thus to succeed collectively in global markets .
This European experience is now being widely studied in Latin America .
In Brazil , four local production systems have combined to form Project Promos / Sebrae / BID , based on the example of Italy &apos;s industrial districts .
Between 2002 and 2006 , Brazil &apos;s SME support services and the Milan Chamber of Commerce created partnerships involving furniture , shoes , designer lingerie , and handicrafts from different regions of the country .
This approach may well be the shape of things to come .
But , while the EU &apos;s association agreement with Mexico is 10 years old , it does not yet have a strategic partnership with Brazil .
This is partly because of the never @-@ ending negotiation process with Mercosur , the troubled - and still incomplete - Latin American customs union .
The EU is currently negotiating trade liberalization deals with all of Latin America &apos;s regional blocs : Mercosur , the Caribbean Community , the Central America Common Market , and the Andean Community .
The EU must urge its Latin American partners towards further integration .
Adopting a common &quot; rule of origin &quot; for their products would be an incentive to liberalize their international trade further , thus increasing it .
Full trade liberalization in Latin America , although difficult to achieve , must be made central to EU strategy , and would boost economic growth .
But even if tariffs and quotas are progressively reduced , trade flows may remain low if other trade costs remain high .
EU cooperation thus should be directed to lowering trade costs .
The crucial issue is market access .
Most Latin American countries still get poor results from their efforts to export to Europe , the exceptions being raw materials and energy resources .
After the establishment of the EU @-@ Chile free @-@ trade area , Chilean exports to the EU increased substantially .
But in the case of EU @-@ Mexico trade liberalization , the growth of imports from the EU has exceeded the growth of exports to Europe , resulting in a widening Mexican trade deficit with the EU .
This is at odds with the EU &apos;s proclamations since the 1999 Rio summit that Latin America is a vital political and economic partner .
A change in Europe &apos;s approach is needed if a strategic partnership is to be created .
The European Commission understands this .
Although the EU does not have a strategic partnership with Brazil , it intends to push ahead with one as fast as possible .
In mid @-@ 2007 , the Commission confirmed that it will revisit the EU &apos;s dialogue with Mercosur , with the aim of giving new impetus to negotiations .
But there is also keen awareness that the EU &apos;s hope for a special relationship with Brazil must not be allowed to hinder regional integration or worsen asymmetries and imbalances within the bloc .
If Latin America is to become a strategic partner for the EU and a more attractive market for European companies , European institutions must become more open to the region &apos;s needs .
A fresh start by the EU with Brazil and Mexico could prove promising , because of the &quot; pull &quot; it might have on other countries .
But this must be accompanied by measures to keep all Latin American countries on board .
Otherwise , Latin America may well prove to be Europe &apos;s next missed business opportunity .
A Fresh Start for Europe
As Europe &apos;s leaders gather in Portugal to put the finishing touches on the new , slimmed down , Reform Treaty , it might be helpful if they all pretended that the last 50 years of European integration had never taken place .
Let &apos;s then imagine what Europe needs to do to confront its most pressing challenges , especially if it were able to do so without the political constraints of 50 years of EU deal @-@ making and ramshackle institution @-@ building .
On top of that , let us make a major leap of imagination and suppose that even though this scenario of the EU at &quot; Year Zero &quot; means we would not have a half @-@ century of intra @-@ European cooperation to draw on , the nations that today make up the EU would nevertheless be keen to adopt far @-@ reaching joint policies .
Let &apos;s suspend our disbelief , then , and try to imagine what Europe could and should be doing to tackle some of the most far @-@ reaching and obstinate policy challenges that will determine whether the next 50 years are as constructive as the last .
Or , to put it another way , let &apos;s look at our problems in the light of the EU &apos;s existing mechanisms and its potential for creating far @-@ reaching new policies , and then let &apos;s ask ourselves why the EU isn &apos;t realizing its own potential and delivering the goods .
Broadly , we see three areas in which Europe &apos;s policymakers at both the national and EU levels can do better : global challenges where Europe could show greater leadership , the creation and strengthening of human capital within the EU and worldwide , and improvement in the effectiveness of the EU &apos;s own political machinery .
Europe needs a clearer and more recognizable global agenda .
It needs to build substantially on its leadership on climate change by adopting much tougher EU goals , and then use its international economic and trade clout to champion new global emissions standards that scientific opinion can accept as meaningful .
On conflict and security issues , Europe should be advancing to a new phase in which it takes much clearer and unambiguous positions on issues ranging from nuclear proliferation to sanctions against Burma &apos;s military regime .
The purpose must be to establish Europe as a forceful and fair @-@ minded player on the world stage , rather than as a &quot; broad church &quot; in which different viewpoints co @-@ exist .
The aim should be that &quot; soft power &quot; instruments like EU development aid and economic partnerships would be linked with a growing sense of political and security outreach to ensure Europe is a global player to be reckoned with .
That means , of course , that the EU should seek to widen its transatlantic thinking so that the EU and the United States cooperate more closely on defining - and thus protecting - their common interests in a world where together they account for little more than 10 % of the total population .
These points are far from a blanket criticism of the EU &apos;s efforts to create a common foreign and security policy .
But they are intended to underline what many people in Europe know very well , which is that the speed with which problems concerning international development and conflict are growing easily outpaces the EU &apos;s policy responses so far .
Building more human capital in Europe and worldwide is a crucially important element in future EU activities .
Education is by far the most profitable investment Europe can make , so it should be launching its most ambitious strategy ever to create a new knowledge dynamic and employment inside the EU while helping to expand greatly education in the world &apos;s poorest countries .
Europe also must at last grasp the nettle of immigration policy - something that has persistently eluded generations of political leaders .
Agreed EU @-@ wide immigration rules are needed to reconcile shrinking Europe &apos;s hunger for imported labor with widespread fears of cultural tensions and social unrest .
It won &apos;t be easy to create a fairer and more multi @-@ cultural Europe , but failure to address this problem openly will carry an even heavier price .
By much the same token , Europe &apos;s governments should be making a determined new effort to strengthen Europeans &quot; sense of a shared history and common values .
A stronger European identity is the soundest basis for creating the more multi @-@ cultural society that demographers regard as inevitable .
Meanwhile , doubts still surround the political and institutional machinery the EU will need to realize these and other ambitious goals .
Sighs of relief greeted EU leaders &quot; mid @-@ year agreement on a Reform Treaty aimed at overhauling the Union &apos;s decision @-@ making mechanisms , but it is still uncertain whether the new pact will survive the ratification process in 27 countries .
We believe , though , that the increased use of qualified majority voting by member governments embodied in the new treaty should also be applied to the ratification process itself .
That way , if a small minority of EU governments prove unable to ratify the treaty , it would not be torpedoed the way that its predecessor , the Constitutional Treaty , was in 2005 .
A Future for the World \ u0027s Coral Reefs ?
Coral reefs are the world &apos;s most biologically rich marine ecosystems , harboring some of the world &apos;s most beautiful organisms .
They provide the principal source of protein for over ten million people worldwide .
Reef @-@ based activities ( principally fishing and tourism ) form the economic livelihood of millions more .
Clearly , the human costs of a worldwide breakdown of these ecosystems are enormous .
Yet global deterioration of coral reefs is severe and ongoing .
Wholesale disintegration of reef ecosystems has occurred in some places , and collapse on a worldwide scale is a real risk .
But there is some good news , too : we know what steps the international community can take now to protect and restore reefs &apos; &quot; resilience &quot; -- their capacity to maintain integrity in the face of the environmental fluctuations that are a natural part of life in any ecosystem .
We must mediate the severity of global warming , while simultaneously conserving the resilience of coral reefs .
Historically , the principal agents of reef degradation have been over @-@ fishing and pollution , not global warming .
In healthy ecosystems , when prey numbers decline , predators become malnourished , and their numbers decline , too , giving their prey a chance to recover .
But human predators are different . When our prey numbers decline , their economic value tends to increase , so fishing intensifies .
This means that once predator species become depleted , fishing pressure shifts towards plant @-@ eating fish species , leading to precipitous declines in the numbers of herbivores on coral reefs .
Herbivorous fish are key players on coral reefs .
When coral populations decline in the aftermath of cyclones , diseases , and other disturbances , it is the herbivores that keep seaweed in check , and allow coral populations to recover .
Without them , fast @-@ growing seaweed quickly monopolizes space on the reef , preventing restoration of healthy quantities of coral cover .
Because corals provide the habitat structure on which other reef organisms depend , the decreases in coral cover lead to big decreases in a reef &apos;s biodiversity .
Pollution by nutrients and toxins from adjacent land areas further vitiate coral populations &apos; ability to recover , giving seaweed an even greater competitive edge .
Corals are formed by a symbiosis between an animal and a one @-@ celled plant .
The animal provides shelter and nutrients for the plant ; the plant converts sunlight into energy , which it shares with the animal .
For reasons that are not yet fully understood , this partnership breaks down when corals experience unusually high temperatures .
The plant is expelled , and corals turn a brilliant white color .
If temperatures soon return to normal , the partnership can be restored .
But if corals remain &quot; bleached &quot; for too long , they die .
For many species of coral , this bleaching threshold is usually only a couple of degrees centigrade above the typical maximum temperature for a given location .
Interpreted in light of even the most optimistic global warming scenarios , this is disturbing news .
If coral bleaching thresholds remain steady , local summer temperatures will exceed those thresholds regularly within a few decades .
Corals grow slowly , so reefs sustaining severe bleaching will not recover before they bleach again .
Fortunately , there is evidence that bleaching thresholds evolve .
Most coral species have broad geographical distributions , and bleach at different temperatures depending on location .
Many species that bleach at 28
Two things can be done to protect coral reefs .
The first is obvious : minimize global warming by , say , honoring the Kyoto Treaty &apos;s emissions targets .
Second , we must restore coral reefs &apos; capacity to cope with environmental change--their resilience--by protecting the fish stocks that keep seaweed in check , and thereby facilitate the recovery of coral populations from bleaching .
These recovery phases enable adaptations to higher temperatures to spread .
Without fish , seaweed dominance will prevent that recovery .
The catastrophic collapse of fish stocks around the world--on coral reefs and elsewhere--has provided hard lessons about managing fisheries .
Many intensively regulated fisheries have collapsed along with the unregulated ones .
So there is a growing consensus that standard techniques for managing fisheries must be complemented with a system of &quot; no @-@ take zones &quot; --areas in which fishing is prohibited altogether .
As fish populations in these no @-@ take zones recover , they create &quot; spill @-@ over &quot; effects , with catches often increasing in areas outside the no @-@ take zones .
More importantly , they provide a refuge for fish populations , a kind of insurance policy against stock collapse .
On coral reefs , these no @-@ take zones can help insure that a portion of coral reef habitat sustains a healthy fish community , and secure the coral reef resilience that this brings .
Scientific evidence indicates that , to be effective , 30 @-@ 50 % of available habitat should be set aside as no @-@ take zones .
This figure is far higher than levels of protection in even the wealthiest countries that harbor significant coral reefs , the US and Australia , where current levels of protection are less than 5 % .
Given the magnitude of the threat to the world &apos;s coral reefs , the international community &apos;s response has been frighteningly slow .
But there is some encouraging news : in June , Australia &apos;s government proposed a major increase in no @-@ take areas within the Great Barrier Reef to over 30 % .
If adopted , this policy would set a new global standard and perhaps prompt other nations to follow suit .
The future of tropical marine ecosystems , and the millions of people whose lives are linked to them , depend on it .
A Future without Precedent
JERUSALEM - In my nearly nine decades of life , I cannot recall a time in which the past was so irrelevant to policymaking .
All of today &apos;s significant developments went unpredicted by anyone .
Experts studied the past , but , constrained by old paradigms , they could not discern the future .
Today &apos;s dynamic complexity , in which a science @-@ based , fast @-@ changing global economy makes so many more phenomena interdependent , prevents us from foreseeing the future through linear extrapolations of the past .
The only certainty is that the future will be defined by scientific progress and innovation , which cannot be known ahead of time .
As a result , the traditional power of states and leaders is declining ; in today &apos;s global economy , innovators , not politicians , wield the most influence .
The globalized economy affects every state , yet no single state can determine the outcomes , because science and technology are borderless .
Global companies wish to do business worldwide , eroding not just sovereignty , but also racism and prejudice , as well as significantly weakening nationalism .
This transformation has placed the world in the hands of a younger generation , more technologically savvy than their parents and connected to one another through social networks that are not confined by territory , language , or government .
The young leaders who created Facebook and Google have had a greater global impact than many statesmen and generals .
These young people are also the leaders of erupting political protest movements .
The &quot; Arab Spring , &quot; the tent demonstrations in Israel , Occupy Wall Street , and the protests in Russia reveal not a clash of civilizations , but a battle of generations .
The young generation understands that the way states and economies are currently run is unfit for the new era .
Yet there are political &quot; hitchhikers &quot; who want to exploit the recent awakening , not by promoting an agenda of freedom , but by imposing a different type of coercion .
In the Arab world , it is mainly extreme Islamists who are hijacking the young generation &apos;s wave , stealing their revolution .
Israel has reacted positively to the will of the young generation , but it cannot and should not intervene in events in the Arab world .
Our hearts are with the rebelling youngsters and their legitimate yearning for freedom and basic rights to express themselves , choose their leaders , and earn their own living .
Israelis wait for the day when our country will no longer be the region &apos;s only democracy , because being an island of prosperity in a sea of poverty is unnatural .
Yet there is a real concern that the extremists , who are politically well organized , are seeking to gain control by the ballot over less @-@ organized liberals , thus preventing peace and stability .
Fundamentalist radicals cannot provide real solutions to the region &apos;s basic problems .
The social changes now underway threaten their way of life , which includes discrimination against women and a ban on modern education .
But only profound reforms of traditional authority can pave the way towards freedom and growth .
Israel can serve as an example to others striving to reach economic prosperity and social freedom , because its success is due to the fact that the country had absolutely nothing at the start .
We returned to our homeland , rich with history , but devoid of natural resources .
Israel was left with only one resource : its human capital .
So we invested in education and science , and today we have the world &apos;s highest percentage of scientists and patents per capita .
Roughly 95 % of our agriculture is hi @-@ tech .
We use less water and yield more crops per acre than any other country in the world .
What Israel can do , others can do as well .
We will gladly offer a helping hand to whoever is willing to reach for it .
Together , in peace with our neighbors , we can create a region of hope , development , and success .
In particular , we must do everything in our power to end the conflict with the Palestinians .
Israel was not born , and it is not Israel &apos;s destiny , to govern another people .
We are sincerely interested in the establishment of a Palestinian state living peacefully side @-@ by @-@ side with Israel , the democratic state of the Jewish people .
For us , peace is both a moral imperative and a national @-@ security strategy , because resolving the conflict would help to stabilize the region by neutralizing the extremists who seek to manipulate today &apos;s popular movements to advance their radical agenda .
The international community can support these efforts by providing incentives to countries that choose freedom and progress .
At the same time , determined and decisive policies must be taken against extremists .
In particular , Iran is a fount of moral corruption that spearheads extremism and halts reform , crushing the legitimate protest of its own citizens and acting against the brave Syrians now fighting for their freedom .
Iran also uses proxies to instigate terror against moderate forces in the Palestinian Authority , Lebanon , and Iraq .
If Iran is successful in its plan to acquire nuclear weapons , its leaders could shake the Middle East and encourage more extremism and violence .
Israel will defend itself if Iran continues to call for its destruction .
However , the threat is not to Israel alone ; Iran is a danger to the peace and stability of the entire world .
The world &apos;s democracies have declared that they will not allow Iran to possess nuclear arms ; it is their duty to follow through on that commitment , before doing so becomes impossible .
Beyond the short @-@ term challenges ahead , we all have a duty to profoundly change the way we prepare our children to cope with today &apos;s new world .
In an era where yesterday has become almost irrelevant and we can hardly predict tomorrow , the role of education must allow all children to reach their highest potential .
Today &apos;s educators should inspire our children towards creativity and innovation .
Self @-@ expression is as important as free expression .
I write this in the 88th year of my life , but not because I have learned from experience .
On the contrary , experience is overrated , often constraining the courage needed to face tomorrow and build an unprecedented new world .
The future is already here ; there is no point in looking back .
A Gasp from Europe
French President Jacques Chirac has alarmed the EU candidate countries of Central and Eastern Europe .
The French president has accused them of being &quot; childish &quot; and &quot; irresponsible &quot; in voicing their pro @-@ US stance on the Iraq issue , and warned that their position could be &quot; dangerous , &quot; as the decision to let them into the EU has not yet been ratified .
Quite a salvo .
Then the French president assumed the role of kindergarten instructor vis @-@ à @-@ vis what he called &quot; badly brought up &quot; candidate countries , telling them that they were &quot; ill @-@ behaved &quot; and that &quot; they missed a great opportunity to shut up . &quot;
To anyone who remembers that 40 years ago President Charles de Gaulle slammed Europe &apos;s door shut in the face of Britain &apos;s request to join the European community--the General thought the British too tied to the US to enter the European family--these remarks are worrying .
But put things in perspective : Jacques Chirac is not Charles de Gaulle ; and Europe has moved far beyond the time when its agenda was unilaterally written by France .
President Chirac &apos;s self @-@ appointed role as an expert in diplomatic good behavior cannot be taken seriously , even by those of us who know ( and love ) France .
Instead , his outburst is best explained as a sign of frustration over the fact that French influence in the EU is being diluted .
Like King Lear after he lost his kingdom , there is nothing France can do about its lost influence but rage impotently .
But this dispute within Europe goes deeper than the matter of France &apos;s lapsed primacy .
I have always been skeptical about the rhetoric of a &quot; common &quot; foreign policy for the EU .
How can you possibly expect a country such as , say , France to accept being voted down by its EU partners on vital foreign and security policy issues ?
At best , Europe should hope for a &quot; more common &quot; foreign and security policy , even though this fails to answer Henry Kissinger &apos;s old question : If you want to speak to &quot; Europe , &quot; whom do you call ?
I have long worked to secure a &quot; much more common &quot; foreign policy within the EU .
Therefore I am worried by today &apos;s split within the EU as well as between some member countries and the US over Iraq .
When eight European leaders published their appeal to heal the growing transatlantic rift , they were accused of undermining European unity .
Nothing could be more incorrect .
They were only exposing the lack of unity that already existed .
It all began last autumn when German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder , desperate to hold on to power , made Iraq an issue in the German election campaign .
He played on Germany &apos;s well @-@ known and respectable pacifist feelings .
But by declaring that he would not , under any circumstance , participate in military actions against Iraq , he undermined the efforts at the UN to put maximum pressure behind the demands that Iraq disarm .
Then France embraced Germany .
French ways in foreign policy are often murky and difficult to decipher , unless it is crystal clear where France regards its interests to lie .
Usually France likes to keep its options open .
But when the French and German governments celebrated the fortieth anniversary of the Elysée Treaty last month , France seemed to paint herself into a corner by supporting the German view .
All this was done without consultations between the French and German governments and their partners within the EU .
It was a demonstration of the special relationship between France and Germany that has for so many years been the driving force in European integration .
The history of Franco @-@ German reconciliation is impressive indeed .
But it can no longer be taken for granted that other EU countries will automatically ratify the agreements that they reach between themselves as the lodestar for common policies .
This is particularly true when their objective is to establish an &quot; alternative &quot; to American leadership in security policy .
Enlargement of the EU with a number of Central and Eastern European countries will strengthen resistance to Franco @-@ German initiatives in this direction .
The letter from the eight European leaders--and the later statement from the &quot; Vilnius Ten &quot; group of Central and Eastern European countries--demonstrated that France ( and Germany ) cannot dictate a European agenda that creates transatlantic rifts .
This has obviously caused frustrations .
But it should not have been a surprise to anyone .
The split within the EU and NATO has increased the risk of armed conflict with Iraq because the pressure on Iraq to comply with the UN resolutions was weakened .
Chirac and Schröder do not seem to grasp this .
So this has not been one of Europe &apos;s finest hours , especially not while the EU &apos;s institutional convention is discussing a text that calls for EU governments to &quot; actively and unreservedly support the Union &apos;s common foreign policy . &quot;
The German acronym for the EU &apos;s &quot; common foreign and security policy &quot; is GASP .
That seems an entirely appropriate expression for what we have been witnessing .
A Gazan Education
GAZA - This was supposed to be my first year of medical school . Instead , I am stuck here in Gaza , in my father &apos;s house inside the Jabalia refugee camp , with few options and no way out .
After I finished high school last year , I decided to become a doctor .
Gaza cries out for bone specialists , but the training I need is available only abroad .
When I won a place at a medical college in Germany , my parents were proud .
I was excited to follow my older brother , who is already studying there .
In February , the German authorities granted me an entrance visa .
I wasted no time in asking the Israeli authorities for permission to travel to Europe .
But I was told that only patients in need of emergency medical evacuation would be allowed out - not students .
Hundreds of other young people trapped in the Gaza Strip have won admission to study abroad .
For many of us , this is our only opportunity to continue our education .
Gaza is one of the most densely populated places on earth , and one of the poorest - 1.5 million of us live on a patch of land about 41 kilometers long and 6 @-@ 12 kilometers wide .
The local hospitals lack the equipment needed to perform many important procedures , like radiation treatments for cancer patients and heart surgery .
Universities in Gaza are overcrowded and starved for supplies .
Many subjects are not even taught , and there are few post @-@ graduate programs .
Instructors from abroad cannot enter Gaza .
Without the ability to go overseas , we cannot learn .
In June , after the United States pressured Israel to allow Fulbright scholarship winners to leave the Gaza Strip , the Israeli military announced that it would grant exit permits for a few more students with &quot; recognized &quot; scholarships - but not &quot; hundreds . &quot;
So hundreds of us are still waiting , most without prestigious scholarships to draw the world &apos;s attention .
I am sure to be one of the many who will not be allowed to leave .
Life in Gaza has bled away my optimism .
My father is a teacher and owns a children &apos;s clothing shop .
My mother is a housekeeper .
I have six brothers and three sisters .
We returned to Palestine in 1996 from Saudi Arabia , where my father had been working as a teacher .
That was at the height of the peace process .
My parents put their hope in the Oslo Accords signed in 1993 , and decided that they could give us a better life here .
But when I was ten , the second
With the backing of the US , Canada , and the European Union , Israel has maintained its blockade in an attempt to defeat Hamas , which won the elections here in 2006 .
But the blockade only makes people more desperate .
Hamas and other armed groups , I know , have launched rocket attacks from the Gaza Strip that have killed civilians in Israeli towns and villages .
But I also have witnessed how Israel has retaliated with air strikes and armed incursions into the Gaza Strip , including Jabalia .
Israel &apos;s blockade amounts to collective punishment .
It is hurting all of us , whether we support Hamas or not .
It is also destroying my dream to write &quot; Specialist in Bone Medicine &quot; after my name .
Sometimes , I am sorry that I am from Gaza .
But my hope is still to go abroad , learn skills , and return to help others here .
Sometimes , when there is electricity , I watch television and see how people live in other places .
I ask myself why they have the opportunity to travel , to study , to take vacations , when I cannot go abroad even to learn medicine .
We are students , not soldiers .
We are not fighters in this conflict .
Why doesn &apos;t Israel let us go study ?
Why do Europe and America support a blockade of young minds ?
Soon , my fellow classmates at the medical college will be starting classes .
When they do , I will probably still be here in my father &apos;s house , waiting for the blockade to end .
A Gender Divided
OXFORD - The top and the bottom of the list of countries in Newsweek &apos;s recent cover story , &quot; The 2011 Global Women &apos;s Progress Report , &quot; evoke images of two different worlds .
At the top of the list - the &quot; Best Places to be a Woman &quot; - we see the usual suspects : Iceland and the Scandinavian countries , the Netherlands , Switzerland , and Canada .
On that planet , we see rankings in the upper 90 &quot; s for the survey &apos;s five categories : justice , health , education , economics , and politics .
Women are out @-@ earning men in college degrees ( United States ) , domestic abusers are being banned from their homes and tracked with electronic monitors ( Turkey ) , and female prime ministers are being elected ( Denmark and Australia ) .
Now look at the other planet , &quot; The Worst Places in the World to be a Woman . &quot;
In Chad , the worst of the worst , woman have &quot; almost no legal rights , &quot; and girls as young as ten are legally married off , which is also true in Niger , the seventh worst place for a woman .
Most women in Mali - the fifth worst - have been traumatized by female genital mutilation .
In Democratic Republic of Congo , 1,100 women are raped every day .
In Yemen , you are free to beat your wife whenever you like .
Though it is stunning to see these two worlds in such stark and detailed relief , their existence is not news : development specialists and human rights groups have been calling attention to these inequities for years .
But the systemic oppression of women tends to be cast in terms of claims for empathy : we shouldn &apos;t follow these policies because they are not nice , not enlightened .
Some development researchers have started to make a compelling case , too , that oppression of women impedes countries &quot; efforts to escape poverty .
But the data in the Newsweek list show that we need to frame this issue in stronger , more sweeping terms : When poor countries choose to oppress their own women , they are to some extent choosing their own continued poverty .
Female oppression is a moral issue ; but it also must be seen as a choice that countries make for short @-@ term &quot; cultural &quot; comfort , at the expense of long @-@ term economic and social progress .
It is not politically correct to attribute any share of very poor countries &quot; suffering to their own decisions .
But it is condescending to refuse to hold many of them partly responsible for their own plight .
Obviously , the legacy of colonialism - widespread hunger , illiteracy , lack of property or legal recourse , and vulnerability to state violence - is a major factor in their current poverty .
But how can we blame that legacy while turning a blind eye to a kind of colonialism against women in these same countries &quot; private homes and public institutions ?
When the poorest countries - most of them in Africa or with Muslim majorities - choose to sustain and even devise new policies that oppress women , we have to be willing to say that , in some measure , they are choosing the economic misfortune that follows .
The developed world &apos;s silence suggests that it takes the mistreatment of black and brown women by black and brown men for granted , rather than holding all people to one standard of justice .
The &quot; surprises &quot; on the Newsweek list confirm that educating women boosts economic prosperity .
Many countries with histories of colonialism and other forms of tyranny , as well as countries without abundant natural resources , have chosen to educate women and grant them legal rights . Some continue to struggle economically , but none is abjectly poor - and some are booming .
Think of China , India , Malaysia , Indonesia , Brazil , South Korea , and Turkey .
The low status of women on Planet Worst cannot be blamed on cultural stasis : many of the &quot; surprise &quot; countries - Romania , Portugal , the Philippines , and India - treated women far more unequally a mere 50 @-@ 100 years ago .
In Pakistan , marital rape is not illegal today , and there are 800 honor killings a year .
What kind of economic boom might stagnating Pakistan enjoy if patriarchy relaxed its grip ?
If you are not innumerate , you can start a business .
If you are not living in mortal fear of rape and beatings at home , you can organize your community to dig a new well .
If you are not subjecting your daughter to traumatic genital injury at three and marrying her off at ten , she can go to school .
And , when she does marry and has children of her own , they will benefit from two educated , employed parents , which means twice as much literate conversation in the home , twice the contacts , and twice the encouragement to succeed .
Educated , pushy mothers make all the difference .
As US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton put it in the Newsweek issue , &quot; The world needs to think more strategically and creatively about tapping into women &apos;s potential for growth .
Studies show that helping women access trade and grow businesses helps create jobs and boost incomes . &quot;
But on Planet Worst , forcing terrified , uneducated women to remain at home is more socially acceptable than facing the fact that this means choosing to drag down incomes for everyone .
It is time to stop tiptoeing around the poorest countries &quot; responsibility to do something essential about their own plight : emancipate their women .
A German Conservative Credo
Few concepts are as elastic as that of &quot; Conservatism . &quot;
At one end of its spectrum of meanings , conservatism has ( over the last two decades ) come to be viewed as promoting too much of a civic life of greed and grab .
At the other end , conservatism in many European countries has historically veered too close for comfort to right @-@ wing extremism .
In Germany today , conservatism was forged in the wake of the Weimar Republic &apos;s failures , experiences unknown to Anglo @-@ Saxon conservatives .
This history accounts for the type of conservatism practiced by the Christian @-@ Democratic Union ( CDU ) and Christian @-@ Social Union ( CSU ) , who focus on moderation and balance , preservation and innovation , and on commanding Germany &apos;s political center .
With federal elections due in Germany this autumn , much will be said about the nature of German conservatism .
Some , looking at CDU / CSU candidate for Chancellor Edmund Stoiber &apos;s emphasis on Bavaria &apos;s economic success , will seek to portray the coalition as shaded dangerously by the &quot; anything goes &quot; market conservatism practiced in America .
Others , pointing to the German conservatives &apos; emphasis on social values , will say that we are as statist as the Social Democrats .
The truth itself is far more complex than these facile comparisons , which also makes it more durable .
CDU / CSU policies are , of course , founded on the idea of individual freedom , but we believe in an individualism tempered by Western culture and the Christian tradition .
We are skeptical about unfettered individualism because of our awareness of man &apos;s sins , but also because of our profound awareness of the historical defects and aberrations in Germany &apos;s 20 th century history .
Yet , despite this deeply ingrained skepticism about human nature , we embrace humanity &apos;s talent for progress and innovation , because we recognize man &apos;s ability to correct mistakes and errors .
These two traits , although they seem to conflict , and are certainly different from the values of American and British conservatives , nonetheless form a sound basis for a realistic pragmatism and the shunning of ideological politics - which is precisely the politics that Germany now requires .
Far from being willing to coerce people to live in a certain way , German conservatives seek a politics that recognizes limits - the limits of the state , the market , and the individual .
We conceive of politics as a mechanism to reconcile enduring conflicts , such as those that exist between freedom and security . Each , indeed , is unsustainable without the other .
Security is useless without freedom , but freedom makes no sense without security - both national security and economic security .
The social market economy , which we continue to embrace , is based on these principles .
It sees competition as the most effective means to promote economic growth , but also embraces state interference , when necessary , to secure equality of opportunity , social solidarity , and social balance . This interference is also intended to help avoid the &quot; economization &quot; of all aspects of civic life .
The market is merely a tool , not an answer to every human problem .
It is in recognition of this fact that German conservatives strive , for example , to strike a balance between economy and ecology . We feel responsible , on a global level , for the environment , which is why we disagree with unilateral decisions by individual nations when such decisions ignore the needs of the rest of the world .
For globalization is both a challenge and an opportunity . As we open ourselves to the wind &apos;s of globalization , we must also strengthen the local institutions that foster social ties and identity , such as the family , local and regional communities , religious communities , and the tradition of voluntary worker solidarity - all which have been neglected in recent years .
This is the principle of &quot; subsidiarity &quot; which supports placing decision @-@ making power , wherever and whenever possible , in governmental bodies nearest to the individual citizen .
This is of particular importance for our ideas about the European Union , where we seek an effective balance between the nation and Europe .
For German conservatives , European integration and national identity are not warring concepts , as they seem to be to our opponents and so many others .
They are , instead , two sides of the same coin . The EU was founded in recognition that certain goals could only be achieved through cooperation .
Decades later , the European Union still needs the binding power and legitimacy of its constituent nations , as well as of historical regional political structures within those nations , because a common European identity is emerging only slowly and cannot yet justify a unitary constitutional structure .
In essence , the form of government we seek within Germany and across Europe is built on a sense of moral discourse and moral decision @-@ making rather than on the supposedly eternal truth of some abstract political concept .
Indeed , only an ongoing skepticism of fashionable political nostrums - both of the statist and market fundamentalist variety - can promote pluralism and tolerance , and avoid a ballooning of the bureaucracy that enfeebles our economy .
In a fast changing world , this skepticism of the center is the only sensible attitude a responsible political party and government can strike .
Our political approach embraces this humane and realistic pragmatism , for it is only such an approach that offers a chance to secure a prosperous stability within which necessary change can be made without ending up in an extremist euphoria or a fear of the future .
Moderation , tolerance , and a capacity for reform in equal measure are the watchwords of today &apos;s German conservatism .
A German Europe ?
LISBON / RIGA - Is the Europe that is emerging from the euro crisis a German one ?
During the euro crisis , power in the European Union seems to have shifted towards national capitals in general , and towards one national capital in particular : Berlin .
But , with Germany introverted , France downgraded , and Britain semi @-@ detached , the big story in European foreign policy is that the time has come for the little guy who thinks big .
In this Europe , the important moves are now sometimes made in Stockholm or Warsaw , not only in Berlin , Paris , or London .
And , with major foreign @-@ policy issues on Europe &apos;s doorstep - whether in Egypt , Belarus , or now Syria - useful European initiatives are to be welcomed , regardless of where they originate .
Germany , in foreign policy as well as in economics , can exert decisive leadership in the EU - when it wants to .
For example , together with Poland , it led the EU &apos;s attempt to develop a coordinated approach to Russia , and it flexed its muscles on Serbia .
But , on other issues - for example , Libya - Germany did not so much lead as use its newfound room for maneuver to follow its own preferences in the face of other EU members .
So the answer today to Henry Kissinger &apos;s famous question about whom he should call when he wants to speak to Europe , is not necessarily &quot; the German chancellor . &quot;
While Berlin is increasingly imposing its economic preferences on others in the eurozone , it is not prepared to use military force as a foreign @-@ policy tool , as it demonstrated in the case of Libya .
Moreover , Germany , it seems , is becoming a &quot; geo @-@ economic power &quot; driven by the needs of its export sector .
By using economic means to pursue its foreign @-@ policy ends , Germany is gradually turning its back on its European partners .
Meanwhile , as France experiences a loss of power relative to Germany on economic issues , it continues to play a decisive role in foreign policy .
France led the Libya operation , and is doing much the same with attempts to impose stronger sanctions against Iran and provide support for the United Nations in Côte d &apos;Ivoire .
But France &apos;s unilateral approach often antagonizes its European partners .
For example , French President Nicolas Sarkozy preempted a common European position on the Palestinian statehood bid at the UN in September .
In other words , even when France leads , it does not always do so in a constructive way .
Apart from the decisive role that it played in Libya alongside France , Britain is becoming increasingly marginal in European foreign policymaking .
Even before it vetoed a plan by eurozone countries to create a &quot; fiscal union &quot; at the European summit in December 2011 , it was playing less of a leadership role than it traditionally has on key European foreign @-@ policy issues .
Britain has continued to support EU enlargement , closer links with Turkey , and development in Africa , but it has not launched any creative initiatives to bring other member states along or change the terms of the EU debate .
On other issues , such as engaging &quot; strategic partners &quot; - China and Russia in particular - the United Kingdom is often a follower as well .
As the &quot; big three &quot; increasingly pursue their own narrowly defined national interests , however , other EU member states are emerging as leaders in key foreign @-@ policy fields .
For example , Sweden - the 14th largest member state in terms of population , and eighth in terms of GDP - under the leadership of Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt and Foreign Minister Carl Bildt punches considerably above its weight .
Last year , it increased annual aid to North Africa by SEK100 million ( € 11.1 million ) , proposed an EU mission to Tunisia just a week after the revolution to support democratic aspirations there , and was an early and strong backer of UN resolutions in support of the uprising in Libya .
Poland , too , is emerging as a foreign @-@ policy leader .
Prime Minister Donald Tusk and Foreign Minister Radek Sikorski have particularly taken the initiative on the EU &apos;s strategy towards Russia , where Poland has largely overcome its differences with Germany and is now at the forefront of efforts to develop a genuinely comprehensive approach .
Poland has also led on European defense ( though it declined to take part in the military intervention in Libya ) .
This reflects the strength of the Polish economy , which is expected to grow by more than 3 % in 2012 - faster than almost anywhere else in the EU .
Germany might be getting all of the attention in this time of crisis , but the last year has been a reminder that Europe is most effective and influential when the small countries get involved and join forces with - and even lead - the big ones .
For example , on Iran ( with exceptions like Greece ) , Europeans have united around a clear policy and collective positions , such as an oil embargo .
So , Poland and Sweden : &amp; nbsp ; Europe needs your leadership .
But that might not be enough in an EU with more than 500 million citizens .
Other EU states need to follow their example in order to make European foreign policy truly effective and influential .
A German Glimmer in a Global Boom
In 2004 , the world economy grew at a rate of 5.1 % , the fastest pace in the last 28 years .
While Ifo &apos;s World Economic Climate indicator , generated from quarterly surveys of 1,200 experts in 90 countries , worsened slightly during the first three quarters of 2005 , it rose again in the last quarter , indicating a continuation of the boom .
In 2005 , growth is estimated to have been about 4.3 % , and a similar rate can be expected in 2006 , marking a period of sustained rapid global growth unseen since the 1970 &quot; s .
But the boom is not uniform .
In the United States , the number of experts giving a favorable assessment of the current situation declined ; indeed , a majority believes that the economic situation will worsen during the next six months .
However , in the Asian countries , including China , the optimism is unbroken .
The same is true for Eastern Europe , the ex @-@ Soviet states , and Latin America .
The big surprise is Europe , which , unlike in 2004 and the first half of 2005 , now seems to be catching up with the rest of the world .
Whereas growth was a miserable 1.5 % in 2005 in the 15 &quot; old &quot; members of the European Union , Ifo expects EU @-@ 15 growth to accelerate to 2.1 % in 2006 .
To be sure , economic performance will vary widely among EU countries .
While Italy will be the laggard , with only 1.1 % growth , the Irish rocket will not lose its force , pushing real GDP up by about 4.8 % .
In general , the big EU countries are still performing badly , in contrast to the smaller members - hardly surprising , given that the EU is basically an institution to help the smaller countries overcome the drawback of their size by extending the agglomeration advantages that formerly were reserved to the bigger countries .
But even Germany , Europe &apos;s biggest economy , is experiencing an upswing .
The Ifo climate indicator for Germany , based on monthly surveys of 7,000 firms , jumped upwards in the second half of 2005 , reaching its highest value since the boom year 2000 , with businesses &quot; assessment of the current situation and expectations improving .
After five years of stagnation , the economy is finally on the move .
The driving force is external demand , as Germany , the world &apos;s second @-@ largest exporter , profits from the global boom .
Exports increased by 6.2 % in 2005 and are expected to increase by 7.4 % in 2006 .
However , as we saw in 2004 and 2005 , exports are not enough to create substantial growth if domestic demand does not follow .
The good news for Germany is that investment demand is now growing , too .
While the second half of 2005 was already quite good , Ifo expects investment in equipment to grow by a healthy 6 % in 2006 .
After many years of contraction , investment in construction also will rise slightly .
Total investment growth is expected to reach 2.9 % - weak by past standards , but nonetheless a promising salve for the wounded German mood .
Moreover , any investment growth is vital for Germany , which , according to the latest OECD statistics , currently suffers from the world &apos;s lowest share of net investment in national income .
Even if Germany remains the world &apos;s laggard , rising investment demand as such will contribute to GDP growth , which Ifo estimates at 1.7 % in 2006 .
That number looks small compared to most other countries .
In fact , all EU countries except Italy and the Netherlands will grow faster .
But everything is relative : Germany &apos;s trend growth rate is just 1.1 % , and the country has been the slowest growing EU country since 1995 .
Measured against a disappointing past , even Germany is currently experiencing an economic boom .
Indeed , even German unemployment , which has been rising in cycles since 1970 , will decline slightly in 2006 , from 4.8 to 4.7 million .
The good economic data will reinforce initial favorable impressions of Angela Merkel &apos;s new government , which got off to an excellent start at the EU Summit , where Merkel helped to broker a compromise between Britain and France on the Union &apos;s 2007 @-@ 2013 budget ( by adding another € 2 billion to Germany &apos;s annual contribution ) .
In fact , the government may even have contributed a bit to the good economic data by announcing a serious effort to consolidate Germany &apos;s own public finances - a prerequisite for investor confidence .
According to the government , substantial tax increases will bring the fiscal deficit below the 3 % -of @-@ GDP limit set by the Stability and Growth Pact - a target missed for five consecutive years - by 2007 .
The real test for the German government is the labor market .
Most observers now agree that Germany needs something like the American earned @-@ income tax credit .
In Germany , it &apos;s called &quot; activating social aid &quot; or &quot; combi wages , &quot; but the principle is the same : the state should reduce the money it pays for doing nothing and pay more for participating in the work force .
That would widen the wage distribution , create jobs , and maintain the living standard of the poor .
Merkel announced in her inaugural speech in the Bundestag that her government will introduce such a system in 2006 .
If this is more than lip service , and if she really carries out a serious reform of the German welfare state &apos;s incentive structure , the result could be higher employment and structural economic growth .
In the long term , that would be more promising for the EU - and for the global economy - than the demand @-@ driven performance that Germany is currently enjoying .
A Global Agenda for Seven Billion
NEW YORK - Late next month , a child will be born - the 7th billion citizen of planet Earth . We will never know the circumstances into which he or she was born .
We do know that the baby will enter a world of vast and unpredictable change - environmental , economic , geopolitical , technological , and demographic .
The world &apos;s population has tripled since the United Nations was created in 1945 .
And our numbers keep growing , with corresponding pressures on land , energy , food , and water . The global economy is generating pressures as well : rising joblessness , widening social inequalities , and the emergence of new economic powers .
These trends link the fate and future of today &apos;s seven billion people as never before . No nation alone can solve the great global challenges of the twenty @-@ first century . International cooperation is a universal need .
The 66th session of the UN General Assembly is a renewed opportunity for the countries of the world to set aside narrow , short @-@ term interests and commit to cooperative efforts to address humanity &apos;s long @-@ term imperatives .
At a time when all nations are experiencing individual challenges , we need to forge a worldwide common agenda that can help to ensure that the seven billionth baby and future generations grow up in a world characterized by sustainable peace , prosperity , freedom , and justice .
To help create this future , I am focusing my second term as Secretary @-@ General on five global imperatives - five generational opportunities to shape the world of tomorrow by the decisions we make today .
The first and greatest of these imperatives is sustainable development . We all must understand that saving our planet , lifting people out of poverty , and advancing economic growth are one and the same fight . We must connect the dots between climate change , water scarcity , energy shortages , global health , food security , and women &apos;s empowerment . Solutions to one problem must be solutions for all .
In the next five years , we need to create a new economic vision for sustainable development and forge global consensus on a binding climate change agreement .
Fostering economic growth , realizing the Millennium Development Goals , and combating climate change will all depend on creating a new energy system for the twenty @-@ first century and extending it to every person on the planet .
Prevention as a framework for international cooperation is a second opportunity .
This year , the UN peacekeeping budget will total $ 8 billion . Think of what we could save by avoiding conflicts - by deploying political mediation missions , for example , rather than troops .
We know how to do this .
Our record proves it - in Guinea , Kenya , and Kyrgyzstan .
A third imperative is building a safer and more secure world . In this effort , we must be courageous in standing up for democracy , human rights , and peace .
This year was one of signature achievements in restoring and securing peace - in Côte d &apos;Ivoire , Darfur , Egypt , and elsewhere . But hatred and bloodshed still stand in the way of our vision for peace .
In the Middle East , we must break the stalemate .
Palestinians deserve a state .
Israel needs security .
Both want peace . A negotiated settlement can produce these outcomes , and the UN is a platform for forging such a peace .
So , too , will we continue our efforts to foster democratic governance in Iraq , Afghanistan , the Democratic Republic of Congo , and Sierra Leone . And , in the name of all of humanity , we will continue to push forward on nuclear disarmament and non @-@ proliferation , in service of realizing a world free of nuclear weapons .
The fourth big opportunity is supporting countries in transition .
This year &apos;s dramatic events in North Africa and the Middle East inspired people around the globe .
Let us help make the Arab Spring a true season of hope for all .
In Libya , we are deploying a new UN support mission to assist the country &apos;s transitional authorities in establishing a new government and legal order , consistent with the aspirations of the Libyan people .
Syria is a special concern .
For six months we have seen escalating violence and repression .
The government has repeatedly pledged to undertake reforms and listen to its people .
It has not done so .
The moment to act is now .
The violence must stop .
Last but not least is the imperative of working with and for women and young people .
Women hold up more than half the sky and represent much of the world &apos;s unrealized potential .
We need their full engagement - in government , business , and civil society .
The UN has placed a high priority on promoting women at all levels of the Organization and this year , for the first time , UN Women is operating to promote the interests and rights of women all over the world .
Seven billion people now look toward the United Nations for solutions to the world &apos;s great global challenges .
They hold different religions and backgrounds but common dreams and aspirations .
Our global future depends on bringing these individual talents and universal rights together in common cause .
Let our common agenda begin .
A Global Consensus Against Terrorism
Mention the United Nations and the first reaction is likely to be the ongoing oil @-@ for @-@ food scandal and what it will mean for Secretary @-@ General Kofi Annan &apos;s ability to lead the organization for the remaining year and a half of his tenure .
But there is much more going on at the UN than investigations .
Reform is in the air - in part because of the scandal , but also because of the UN &apos;s inability to deal effectively with challenges ranging from Rwanda and Kosovo to Iraq and , most recently , Sudan .
Even the UN &apos;s most ardent supporters now recognize that change is called for if the organization is to make a significant contribution to international peace and security .
Some of the reform talk concerns the UN Security Council &apos;s composition .
The Security Council represents what the World War II Allies believed the post @-@ war world would look like and how it should be run .
This helps to explain why a much @-@ weakened France was made a permanent member of the Council - and why Germany and Japan ( and a not @-@ yet independent India ) were not .
Defending the Security Council &apos;s current make @-@ up is impossible ; the need for change is beyond debate .
But coming up with an approach that gains broad international support will prove extremely difficult .
Great Britain and France will resist being replaced by a single EU seat , while making Germany a permanent member would only exacerbate the problem of Europe &apos;s relative over @-@ representation .
Pakistan would object to adding India to the Security Council ; Argentina , Chile , and Mexico to adding Brazil ; Nigeria to South Africa ( and vice @-@ versa ) ; and several countries , including China , Indonesia , and South Korea , might resist creating a permanent seat for Japan .
Clearly , fixing the Security Council will require considerable time and political effort .
In the meantime , there is important work to be done .
One productive avenue would be to follow up on one of the recommendations of the High Level Panel that was endorsed by Annan ; namely , that all UN members go on record declaring that terrorism has no place in today &apos;s world .
This will prove more difficult than it first sounds .
For too long , the international community has tolerated terrorism - the intentional killing of civilians and noncombatants by non @-@ state actors for political purposes - on the grounds that , on occasion , &quot; one man &apos;s terrorist is another man &apos;s freedom fighter . &quot;
Historians have the luxury of debating whether terrorism may have been justified in certain situations in the past .
We do not .
Modern terrorism is too destructive to be tolerated , much less supported .
Weapons of mass destruction - nuclear , biological , and chemical weapons - are just that , and no cause can excuse their use .
Moreover , as the terrorist attacks on America of 2001 showed , weapons as basic as box @-@ cutters can become weapons of mass destruction if they are used to exploit the vulnerabilities of modern , global life .
Terrorism is even less justified given that political avenues exist nowadays for pursuing political aims .
Palestinians can negotiate their future relationship with Israel and can count on American , Russian , European , and UN assistance .
Iraqis have elected their own representatives and are poised to write their constitution .
No one pursuing reasonable goals and who is prepared to compromise can argue that terrorism is his or his group &apos;s only option .
The world has already taken some important steps against terrorism .
A dozen international conventions and numerous UN resolutions commit governments to oppose hostage taking , the hijacking of civilian aircraft , and terrorism more broadly .
Similarly , the mandate of the Financial Action Task Force , created in 1989 to curb money laundering , has grown and become focused mainly on curbing terrorist financing .
UN Security Council Resolution 1373 , passed after the September 11 attacks , calls on states to deny safe haven to terrorists , bring to justice anyone associated with terrorism , suppress recruitment by terrorist groups , block terrorists &quot; efforts to acquire weapons , and cooperate with other governments and international organizations in tracking suspects and boosting security .
What is missing is a new , 13th convention that closes the loophole that seems to permit governments to decide what constitutes terrorism and what does not .
Broad agreement is needed that any intentional killing of civilians and noncombatants is unacceptable , and that its perpetrators and supporters must be punished .
Of course , such a convention will not prevent all future acts of terrorism .
But ideas matter .
Terrorism needs to be de @-@ legitimized in the way that slavery has been .
Doing so will make governments and individuals think twice before becoming a party to terrorism ; it should also make it less difficult to garner support for international action against those who nevertheless carry it out .
We are taught early on in our lives that the end cannot justify the means .
It is time to put this principle into effect before many more innocent lives are lost .
A Global Green New Deal
NAIROBI - With unemployment soaring , bankruptcies climbing , and stock markets in free @-@ fall , it may at first glance seem sensible to ditch the fight against climate change and put environmental investments on hold .
But this would be a devastating mistake of immediate , as well as inter @-@ generational , proportions .
Far from burdening an already over @-@ stressed , over @-@ stretched global economy , environmental investments are exactly what is needed to get people back to work , get order books flowing , and assist in powering economies back to health .
In the past , concern for the environment was viewed as a luxury ; today , it is a necessity - a point grasped by some , but by no means all , economic architects yet .
A big slice of President Barack Obama &apos;s $ 825 billion stimulus package for the United States includes a boost to renewable energy , &quot; weatherizing &quot; a million homes , and upgrading the country &apos;s inefficient electricity grid .
Such investments could generate an estimated five million &quot; green @-@ collar &quot; jobs , provide a shot in the arm for the construction and engineering industries , and get America back into the equally serious business of combating climate change and achieving energy security .
The Republic of Korea , which is losing jobs for the first time in more than five years , has also spotted the green lining to grim economic times .
President Lee Myung @-@ Bak &apos;s government plans to invest $ 38 billion employing people to clean up four major rivers and reduce disaster risks by building embankments and water @-@ treatment facilities .
Other elements of Lee &apos;s plan include construction of eco @-@ friendly transportation networks , such as high @-@ speed railways and hundreds of kilometers of bicycle tracks , and generating energy using waste methane from landfills .
The package also counts on investments in hybrid vehicle technologies .
Similar pro @-@ employment &quot; Green New Deal &quot; packages have been lined up in China , Japan , and the United Kingdom .
They are equally relevant to developing economies in terms of jobs , fighting poverty , and creating new opportunities at a time of increasingly uncertain commodity prices and exports .
In South Africa , the government @-@ backed
This work is set to expand as more than 40 million tons of invasive alien plants are harvested for power @-@ station fuel .
As a result , an estimated 500 megawatts of electricity , equal to 2 % of the country &apos;s electricity needs , will be generated , along with more than 5,000 jobs .
So it is clear that some countries now view environmental investments in infrastructure , energy systems , and ecosystems as among the best bets for recovery .
Others may be unsure about the potential returns from investing in ecosystem services such as forest carbon storage or in renewable energy for the 80 % of Africans who have no access to electricity .
Still others may simply be unaware of how to precisely follow suit .
In early February , the United Nations Environment Program will convene some of the world &apos;s leading economists at the UN &apos;s headquarters in New York .
A strategy for a Global Green New Deal , tailored to different national challenges , will be fleshed out in order to assist world leaders and ministers craft stimulus packages that work on multiple fronts .
The Global Green New Deal , which UNEP launched as a concept in October 2008 , responds to the current economic malaise .
Spent wisely , however , these stimulus packages could trigger far @-@ reaching and transformational trends , setting the stage for a more sustainable , urgently needed Green Economy for the twenty @-@ first century .
The trillions of dollars that have been mobilized to address current woes , together with the trillions of investors &quot; dollars waiting in the wings , represent an opportunity that was unthinkable only 12 months ago : the chance to steer a more resource @-@ efficient and intelligent course that can address problems ranging from climate change and natural @-@ resource scarcity to water shortages and biodiversity loss .
Blindly pumping the current bail @-@ out billions into old industries and exhausted economic models will be throwing good money after bad while mortgaging our children &apos;s future .
Instead , political leaders must use these windfalls to invest in innovation , promote sustainable businesses , and encourage new patterns of decent , long @-@ lasting employment .
A Global Perfect Storm
NEW YORK - Dark , lowering financial and economic clouds are , it seems , rolling in from every direction : the eurozone , the United States , China , and elsewhere .
Indeed , the global economy in 2013 could be a very difficult environment in which to find shelter .
For starters , the eurozone crisis is worsening , as the euro remains too strong , front @-@ loaded fiscal austerity deepens recession in many member countries , and a credit crunch in the periphery and high oil prices undermine prospects of recovery .
The eurozone banking system is becoming balkanized , as cross @-@ border and interbank credit lines are cut off , and capital flight could turn into a full run on periphery banks if , as is likely , Greece stages a disorderly euro exit in the next few months .
Moreover , fiscal and sovereign @-@ debt strains are becoming worse as interest @-@ rate spreads for Spain and Italy have returned to their unsustainable peak levels .
Indeed , the eurozone may require not just an international bailout of banks ( as recently in Spain ) , but also a full sovereign bailout at a time when eurozone and international firewalls are insufficient to the task of backstopping both Spain and Italy .
As a result , disorderly breakup of the eurozone remains possible .
Farther to the west , US economic performance is weakening , with first @-@ quarter growth a miserly 1.9 % - well below potential .
And job creation faltered in April and May , so the US may reach stall speed by year end .
Worse , the risk of a double @-@ dip recession next year is rising : even if what looks like a looming US fiscal cliff turns out to be only a smaller source of drag , the likely increase in some taxes and reduction of some transfer payments will reduce growth in disposable income and consumption .
Moreover , political gridlock over fiscal adjustment is likely to persist , regardless of whether Barack Obama or Mitt Romney wins November &apos;s presidential election .
Thus , new fights on the debt ceiling , risks of a government shutdown , and rating downgrades could further depress consumer and business confidence , reducing spending and accelerating a flight to safety that would exacerbate the fall in stock markets .
In the east , China , its growth model unsustainable , could be underwater by 2013 , as its investment bust continues and reforms intended to boost consumption are too little too late .
A new Chinese leadership must accelerate structural reforms to reduce national savings and increase consumption &apos;s share of GDP ; but divisions within the leadership about the pace of reform , together with the likelihood of a bumpy political transition , suggest that reform will occur at a pace that simply is not fast enough .
The economic slowdown in the US , the eurozone , and China already implies a massive drag on growth in other emerging markets , owing to their trade and financial links with the US and the European Union ( that is , no &quot; decoupling &quot; has occurred ) .
At the same time , the lack of structural reforms in emerging markets , together with their move towards greater state capitalism , is hampering growth and will reduce their resiliency .
Finally , long @-@ simmering tensions in the Middle East between Israel and the US on one side and Iran on the other on the issue of nuclear proliferation could reach a boil by 2013 .
The current negotiations are likely to fail , and even tightened sanctions may not stop Iran from trying to build nuclear weapons .
With the US and Israel unwilling to accept containment of a nuclear Iran by deterrence , a military confrontation in 2013 would lead to a massive oil price spike and global recession .
These risks are already exacerbating the economic slowdown : equity markets are falling everywhere , leading to negative wealth effects on consumption and capital spending .
Borrowing costs are rising for highly indebted sovereigns , credit rationing is undermining small and medium @-@ size companies , and falling commodity prices are reducing exporting countries &quot; income .
Increasing risk aversion is leading economic agents to adopt a wait @-@ and @-@ see stance that makes the slowdown partly self @-@ fulfilling .
Compared to 2008 @-@ 2009 , when policymakers had ample space to act , monetary and fiscal authorities are running out of policy bullets ( or , more cynically , policy rabbits to pull out of their hats ) .
Monetary policy is constrained by the proximity to zero interest rates and repeated rounds of quantitative easing .
Indeed , economies and markets no longer face liquidity problems , but rather credit and insolvency crises .
Meanwhile , unsustainable budget deficits and public debt in most advanced economies have severely limited the scope for further fiscal stimulus .
Using exchange rates to boost net exports is a zero @-@ sum game at a time when private and public deleveraging is suppressing domestic demand in countries that are running current @-@ account deficits and structural issues are having the same effect in surplus countries .
After all , a weaker currency and better trade balance in some countries necessarily implies a stronger currency and a weaker trade balance in others .
Meanwhile , the ability to backstop , ring @-@ fence , and bail out banks and other financial institutions is constrained by politics and near @-@ insolvent sovereigns &quot; inability to absorb additional losses from their banking systems .
As a result , sovereign risk is now becoming banking risk .
Indeed , sovereigns are dumping a larger fraction of their public debt onto banks &quot; balance sheet , especially in the eurozone .
To prevent a disorderly outcome in the eurozone , today &apos;s fiscal austerity should be much more gradual , a growth compact should complement the EU &apos;s new fiscal compact , and a fiscal union with debt mutualization ( Eurobonds ) should be implemented . &amp; nbsp ; In addition , a full banking union , starting with eurozone @-@ wide deposit insurance , should be initiated , and moves toward greater political integration must be considered , even as Greece leaves the eurozone .
Unfortunately , Germany resists all of these key policy measures , as it is fixated on the credit risk to which its taxpayers would be exposed with greater economic , fiscal , and banking integration .
As a result , the probability of a eurozone disaster is rising .
And , while the cloud over the eurozone may be the largest to burst , it is not the only one threatening the global economy .
Batten down the hatches .
A Global Solutions Network
NEW YORK - Great social change occurs in several ways .
A technological breakthrough - the steam engine , computers , the Internet - may play a leading role .
Visionaries , such as Mahatma Gandhi , Martin Luther King Jr . , and Nelson Mandela , may inspire a demand for justice .
Political leaders may lead a broad reform movement , as with Franklin Roosevelt and the New Deal .
Our own generation urgently needs to spur another era of great social change .
This time , we must act to save the planet from a human @-@ induced environmental catastrophe .
Each of us senses this challenge almost daily .
Heat waves , droughts , floods , forest fires , retreating glaciers , polluted rivers , and extreme storms buffet the planet at a dramatically rising rate , owing to human activities .
Our $ 70 @-@ trillion @-@ per @-@ year global economy is putting unprecedented pressures on the natural environment .
We will need new technologies , behaviors , and ethics , supported by solid evidence , to reconcile further economic development with environmental sustainability .
United Nations Secretary @-@ General Ban Ki @-@ moon is taking on this unprecedented challenge from his unique position at the crossroads of global politics and society .
At the political level , the UN is the meeting place for 193 member states to negotiate and create international law , as in the important treaty on climate change adopted at the Rio Earth Summit in 1992 .
At the level of global society , the UN represents the world &apos;s citizenry , &quot; we the peoples , &quot; as it says in the UN Charter . &amp; nbsp ; At the societal level , the UN is about the rights and responsibilities of all of us , including future generations .
In the past two decades , governments have come up short on solutions to environmental threats .
Politicians have failed to implement properly the treaties adopted at the 1992 Earth Summit .
Ban knows that strong government action remains vital , but he also recognizes that civil society must also play a larger role , especially because too many governments and politicians are beholden to vested interests , and too few politicians think in time horizons that extend past the next election .
To empower global society to act , Ban has launched a bold new global initiative , for which I am grateful to volunteer .
The UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network is a powerful effort to mobilize global knowledge to save the planet .
The idea is to use global networks of knowledge and action to identify and demonstrate new , cutting @-@ edge approaches to sustainable development around the world .
The network will work alongside and support governments , UN agencies , civil @-@ society organizations , and the private sector .
Humanity needs to learn new ways to produce and use low @-@ carbon energy , grow food sustainably , build livable cities , and manage the global commons of oceans , biodiversity , and the atmosphere .
But time is running very short .
Today &apos;s mega @-@ cities , for example , already have to confront dangerous heat waves , rising sea levels , more extreme storms , dire congestion , and air and water pollution .
Agricultural regions already need to become more resilient in the face of increased climate volatility .
And as one region in one part of the world designs a better way to manage its transport , energy needs , water supplies , or food supplies , those successes should quickly become part of the global knowledge base , enabling other regions to benefit rapidly as well .
Universities have a special role to play in the new UN knowledge network .
Exactly 150 years ago , in 1862 , Abraham Lincoln created America &apos;s &quot; land @-@ grant &quot; universities to help local communities to improve farming and the quality of life through science .
Today , we need universities in all parts of the world to help their societies face the challenges of poverty reduction , clean energy , sustainable food supplies , and the rest .
By linking together , and putting their curricula online , the world &apos;s universities can become even more effective in discovering and promoting science @-@ based solutions to complex problems .
The world &apos;s corporate sector also has a significant role to play in sustainable development .
Now the corporate sector has two faces .
It is the repository of cutting @-@ edge sustainable technologies , pioneering research and development , world @-@ class management , and leadership in environmental sustainability .
Yet at the same time , the corporate sector lobbies aggressively to gut environmental regulations , slash corporate @-@ tax rates , and avoid their own responsibility for ecological destruction .
Sometimes the same company operates on both sides of the divide .
We urgently need far @-@ sighted companies to join the Sustainable Development Solutions Network .
These companies are uniquely placed to move new ideas and technologies into early @-@ stage demonstration projects , thereby accelerating global learning cycles .
Equally important , we need a critical mass of respected corporate leaders to press their peers to cease the anti @-@ environmental lobbying and campaign @-@ finance practices that account for the inaction of governments . &amp; nbsp ;
Sustainable development is a generational challenge , not a short @-@ term task .
The reinvention of energy , food , transport , and other systems will take decades , not years .
But the long @-@ term nature of this challenge must not lull us into inaction .
We must start reinventing our productive systems now , precisely because the path of change will be so long and the environmental dangers are already so pressing . &amp; nbsp ;
At the Rio + 20 Summit this past June , the world &apos;s governments agreed to adopt a new set of goals on sustainable development for the period after 2015 , to build upon the Millennium Development Goals &quot; success in reducing poverty , hunger , and disease .
In the post @-@ 2015 era , the fight against poverty and the fight to protect the environment will go hand in hand , reinforcing each other .
Secretary @-@ General Ban Ki @-@ moon has already initiated several global processes to help establish the new post @-@ 2015 goals in an open , participatory , and knowledge @-@ based way . &amp; nbsp ;
The Secretary General &apos;s launch of the Sustainable Development Solutions Network is therefore especially timely .
Not only will the world adopt a new set of goals to achieve sustainable development , but it will also have a new global network of expertise to help achieve those vital objectives . &amp; nbsp ;
A Good Rate Hike for Europe
Two wrongs don &apos;t make a right .
Just because European governments have failed to put bread on their constituents &quot; tables doesn &apos;t mean that the European Central Bank should likewise fail in its job of promoting price stability in the euro zone .
That may sound obvious , but abandoning price stability is exactly what some European politicians are advocating .
For example , Italian politicians , who , given Italy &apos;s recent dismal economic performance , would seem the least qualified to offer the ECB advice on monetary policy , are nonetheless advocating interest @-@ rate cuts .
Echoing comments by Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi , Deputy Economics Minister Mario Baldassarri said in Il Sole 24 Ore last week that all efforts to boost growth are in vain &quot; if someone is pushing on the brake pedal . &quot;
Who &apos;s he kidding ?
If anyone is &quot; pushing down on the Italian growth brake &quot; it is Berlusconi himself .
He has made no efforts at economic reform during his term and now seeks to blame the ECB for Italy &apos;s lame economic performance .
But it is precisely the lack of economic reform at home that has made Italy one of the least competitive states in the euro @-@ zone economy .
More than the usual &quot; blame game &quot; is at work here .
Pressures are mounting on the ECB to raise interest rates - and Berlusconi and Co . &quot; s attacks are as much as an attempt to forestall future rate hikes as to get the ECB to loosen its monetary policy .
Soaring energy prices , for example , have become a leading inflation risk .
But higher energy prices , by themselves , will not cause the ECB to pull the interest @-@ rate trigger .
The key will be so @-@ called &quot; second @-@ round effects &quot; - whether growing crude prices lead to higher wage demands from trade unions .
So far , the &quot; social partners , &quot; as ECB president Jean @-@ Claude Trichet likes to call the unions , have been quiet .
Should this change , the ECB will have to raise rates even if Europe &apos;s economic growth remains slack .
The good news is that economic growth in the euro @-@ zone economy appears to be picking up ( even in Italy ) .
Though second @-@ quarter GDP growth was weak - the euro @-@ zone average was only 0.3 % year on year - third @-@ quarter data are indicating a sustained economic pick @-@ up in the second half of the year .
Only consumption is lagging .
How will the ECB react to better economic news ?
Some on the Governing Council have grown uncomfortable that euro @-@ zone interest rates have stayed so low , at 2 % , for so long ( more than two years ) .
True , there is no inflation problem in the short run , but the ECB &apos;s monetary policy focuses on the medium term .
One particular worry is that euro @-@ zone money supply is well above the ECB &apos;s benchmark level , indicating an excess supply of liquidity .
It is doubtful that the ECB would raise interest rates to curb excess liquidity so long as economic recovery remains in question .
Slow growth has silenced the monetarists on the ECB &apos;s Governing Council .
This will change , however , once the economic pick @-@ up is confirmed .
Interest @-@ rate hikes may be coming sooner rather than later , which is why Berlusconi and French President Jacques Chirac are talking up interest @-@ rate cuts now .
Meanwhile , in Germany , the elections this September may have surprising consequences for ECB monetary policy .
Angela Merkel , the Christian Democrats &quot; candidate , is a reformer , holding out hope for Germany &apos;s future - and that of Europe .
Unfortunately , Merkel &apos;s campaign is off to a rocky start , and the recent entry of Oskar Lafontaine &apos;s extreme left @-@ wing party into the fray may necessitate the formation of a grand coalition between the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats .
This would be bad news for the German economy , which could delay possible ECB interest rate hikes .
Because the expected gridlock in parliament would make reforms less likely , companies might hold off on investment , while consumers would be more likely to keep their wallets closed , because official policy would be even less clear than it is now .
On the other hand , a center @-@ right coalition between the Christian Democrats and the Free Democrats could spark the ECB into action .
This raises an interesting point .
The public should be relieved if the ECB raises rates , because this would most likely signal that the long @-@ awaited economic recovery is well under way , and that inflationary repercussions are being addressed .
A hike , in other words , would indicate that good things are happening .
But the public often views interest @-@ rate increases as negative events that increase unemployment and stifle growth .
Blame @-@ game politicians like Berlusconi , who have failed to put bread on the table , their minions in the media , and Keynesian economic professors who don &apos;t understand and misrepresent Keynes sustain this distorted view .
Europe would be a lot better off if someone told the public the truth .
A Grand Bargain with Iran
The specter of a nuclear Iran haunts Arabs and Israelis alike , but it is the United States and Israel that are the driving force behind efforts to curtail Iran &apos;s nuclear ambitions .
The America @-@ Iran @-@ Israel triangle is where the clue to the problem and its possible solution lie .
Though Ayatollah Khomeini &apos;s Islamic revolution in 1979 disrupted Israel &apos;s old alliance with Iran , the two countries continued to conduct business with America &apos;s blessing .
The Iran @-@ Contra affair of the 1980 &quot; s , through which Israel supplied arms to the Islamic Republic in its war against Iraq is a case in point .
Israel and Iran , two non @-@ Arab powers in a hostile Arab environment , shared fundamental interests that the Islamic revolution could not change .
It was during Yitzhak Rabin &apos;s government in the early 1990 &quot; s that Israel and Iran entered into open conflict , owing to the changing strategic environment after America &apos;s victory in the first Gulf War and the collapse of the Soviet Union .
The US @-@ sponsored Arab @-@ Israeli peace process , which produced a series of breathtaking achievements - the Madrid peace conference , the Oslo accords , Israel &apos;s peace agreement with Jordan , a near @-@ rapprochement with Syria , and Israel &apos;s inroads into Arab states from Morocco to Qatar - was an increasingly isolated Iran &apos;s worst nightmare .
It was at that crossroads that Israel and Iran , two powers vying for mastery in a rapidly changing Middle East , chose to cast their strategic competition in ideological terms .
The conflict was now between Israel , a beacon of democracy fighting the expansion of a Shiite obscurantist empire , and an Iran that chose to protect its revolution by mobilizing the Arab masses in the name of Islamic values and against treacherous rulers who had betrayed the dispossessed Palestinians .
More an enemy of Israeli @-@ Arab reconciliation than of Israel as such , the Mullahs &quot; resort to an incendiary anti @-@ Jewish , pan @-@ Islamic discourse is aimed at ending Iran &apos;s isolation and presenting its regional ambitions in a light palatable to the Sunni masses .
In an Arab Middle East , Iran is the natural enemy ; in an Islamic world , Iran is a potential leader .
Ironically , Iran has been the main supporter of Arab democracy , for the best way to undermine the incumbent regimes is to promote popularly based Islamist movements such as Hezbollah in Lebanon , the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt , Hamas in Palestine , and the Shiite majority in Iraq .
Yitzhak Rabin believed that an Israeli @-@ Arab peace could prevent a nuclear Iran , but now his nightmare seems rapidly approaching .
As an anti @-@ status quo power , Iran is not pursuing nuclear capabilities in order to destroy Israel , but to gain prestige and influence in a hostile environment and as a shield for its challenge to the regional order .
But Israel has every reason to be concerned , for a nuclear Iran would undermine the promise of Zionism to secure a Jewish refuge - the core rationale of Israel &apos;s own strategy of &quot; nuclear ambiguity &quot; - and would embolden its enemies throughout the region .
It would also trigger uncontrolled regional nuclear proliferation , with Saudi Arabia and Egypt leading the way .
A military attack on Iran &apos;s nuclear facilities is too dangerous , and its results uncertain .
And , however severe economic sanctions might be , they might not bring Iran to its knees .
Nor is it clear that the split within the Iranian elite between revolutionary purists and those with a merchant @-@ class mentality would lead to regime change any time soon .
However , being radical does not necessarily mean being irrational , and revolutionary Iran has given frequent proof of its pragmatism .
In the American @-@ Iranian equation it was the US , not Iran , that conducted rigid ideological diplomacy .
Iran backed the US during the first Gulf War , but was left out of the Madrid peace conference .
Iran also supported America in its war to depose the Taliban in Afghanistan .
And , when US forces overran Saddam Hussein &apos;s army in the spring of 2003 , the encircled Iranians proposed a grand bargain that would put all contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear issue to Israel , from Hezbollah to Hamas .
The Iranians also pledged to stop obstructing the Israeli @-@ Arab peace process .
But , neo @-@ conservative haughtiness - &quot; We don &apos;t speak to evil &quot; - ruled out a pragmatic response to Iran &apos;s demarche .
Iran &apos;s mood changed by the time America &apos;s entire Middle East strategy had gone adrift , but the grand bargain remains the only viable way out of the impasse .
This would not be achieved , however , through an inevitably imperfect sanctions regime , or by America &apos;s resort to Cold War logic aimed at breaking Iran &apos;s backbone by drawing it into a ruinous arms race .
Iran &apos;s growing regional influence does not stem from its military expenditures , which are far lower than those of its enemies , but from its challenge to America and Israel through an astute use of soft power .
There is no better way to undercut Iran &apos;s regional strategy of destabilization than a comprehensive Arab @-@ Israeli peace , accompanied by massive investments in human development , and followed by an internationally sponsored system of peace and security in a verifiably nuclear @-@ free Middle East , including Israel .
A Gravity Test for the Euro
CAMBRIDGE - Although I appreciate that exchange rates are never easy to explain or understand , I find today &apos;s relatively robust value for the euro somewhat mysterious .
Do the gnomes of currency markets seriously believe that the eurozone governments &quot; latest &quot; comprehensive package &quot; to save the euro will hold up for more than a few months ?
The new plan relies on a questionable mix of dubious financial @-@ engineering gimmicks and vague promises of modest Asian funding .
Even the best part of the plan , the proposed ( but not really agreed ) 50 % haircut for private @-@ sector holders of Greek sovereign debt , is not sufficient to stabilize that country &apos;s profound debt and growth problems .
So how is it that the euro is trading at a 40 % premium to the US dollar , even as investors continue to view southern European government debt with great skepticism ?
I can think of one very good reason why the euro needs to fall , and six not @-@ so @-@ convincing reasons why it should remain stable or appreciate .
Let &apos;s begin with why the euro needs to fall .
Absent a clear path to a much tighter fiscal and political union , which can lead only through constitutional change , the current halfway house of the euro system appears increasingly untenable .
It seems clear that the European Central Bank will be forced to buy far greater quantities of eurozone sovereign ( junk ) bonds .
That may work in the short term , but if sovereign default risks materialize - as my research with Carmen Reinhart suggests is likely - the ECB will in turn have to be recapitalized .
And , if the stronger northern eurozone countries are unwilling to digest this transfer - and political resistance runs high - the ECB may be forced to recapitalize itself through money creation .
Either way , the threat of a profound financial crisis is high .
Given this , what arguments support the current value of the euro , or its further rise ?
First , investors might be telling themselves that in the worst @-@ case scenario , the northern European countries will effectively push out the weaker countries , creating a super @-@ euro .
But , while this scenario has a certain ring of truth , surely any breakup would be highly traumatic , with the euro diving before its rump form recovered .
Second , investors may be remembering that even though the dollar was at the epicenter of the 2008 financial panic , the consequences radiated so widely that , paradoxically , the dollar actually rose in value .
Although it may be difficult to connect the dots , it is perfectly possible that a huge euro crisis could have a snowball effect in the US and elsewhere .
Perhaps the transmission mechanism would be through US banks , many of which remain vulnerable , owing to thin capitalization and huge portfolios of mortgages booked far above their market value .
Third , foreign central banks and sovereign wealth funds may be keen to keep buying up euros to hedge against risks to the US and their own economies .
Government investors are not necessarily driven by the return @-@ maximizing calculus that motivates private investors .
If foreign official demand is the real reason behind the euro &apos;s strength , the risk is that foreign sovereign euro buyers will eventually flee , just as private investors would , only in a faster and more concentrated way .
Fourth , investors may believe that , ultimately , US risks are just as large as Europe &apos;s .
True , the US political system seems stymied in coming up with a plan to stabilize medium @-@ term budget deficits .
Whereas the US Congress &apos;s &quot; supercommittee , &quot; charged with formulating a fiscal @-@ consolidation package , will likely come up with a proposal , it is far from clear that either Republicans or Democrats will be willing to accept compromise in an election year .
Moreover , investors might be worried that the US Federal Reserve will weigh in with a third round of &quot; quantitative easing , &quot; which would further drive down the dollar .
Fifth , the current value of the euro does not seem wildly out of line on a purchasing @-@ power basis . &amp; # 160 ; An exchange rate of $ 1.4 : € 1 is cheap for Germany &apos;s export powerhouse , which could probably operate well even with a far stronger euro .
For the eurozone &apos;s southern periphery , however , today &apos;s euro rate is very difficult to manage .
Whereas some German companies persuaded workers to accept wage cuts to help weather the financial crisis , wages across the southern periphery have been marching steadily upwards , even as productivity has remained stagnant .
But , because the overall value of the euro has to be a balance of the eurozone &apos;s north and south , one can argue that 1.4 is within a reasonable range .
Finally , investors might just believe that the eurozone leaders &quot; latest plan will work , even though the last dozen plans have failed .
Abraham Lincoln is credited with saying &quot; You can fool some of the people all of the time , and all of the people some of the time , but you cannot fool all of the people all of the time . &quot; A comprehensive euro fix will surely arrive for some of the countries at some time , but not for all of the countries anytime soon .
So , yes , there are plenty of vaguely plausible reasons why the euro , despite its drawn @-@ out crisis , has remained so firm against the dollar so far .
But don &apos;t count on a stable euro @-@ dollar exchange rate - much less an even stronger euro - in the year ahead .
A Greek Catch @-@ 22
BUENOS AIRES - Desperate times bring desperate measures .
The latest package to cope with Greece &apos;s insolvency offers a bond buyback to lighten the country &apos;s debt burden .
In essence , this is a back @-@ door debt restructuring : Europe &apos;s bailout fund , the European Financial Stability Facility ( EFSF ) would lend the money for Greece to buy back its own debt in the secondary market at deep discounts , thereby imposing a loss on private bondholders without the need to declare a default .
A recurrent characteristic of Europe &apos;s debt @-@ crisis debate is a Latin American precedent .
Indeed , many highly indebted countries in Latin America conducted similar debt buybacks in the late 1980 &quot; s .
Bolivia &apos;s 1988 buyback of close to half of its defaulted sovereign debt , an operation funded by international donors , is a classic example .
But the most relevant Latin American experience with debt buybacks is a more recent and far less studied case : Ecuador in 2008 .
President Rafael Correa had been toying with default since the 2006 presidential campaign ( debt repudiation was part of his platform ) , and quickly earned a CCC rating from Fitch .
The reasons invoked by Correa ( legal concerns about how the bonds were issued in the 2000 debt exchange ) were beside the point .
The default threat was a way to depress bond prices in secondary markets , only to buy them back at a discount through the back door .
That task was outsourced to Banco del Pacífico , which bought the soon @-@ to @-@ be @-@ defaulted Ecuadorian paper at 20 cents on the dollar and above - a level low enough for a deep haircut but high enough to fend off &quot; vulture &quot; investors .
To speed things up , after the default was declared in December 2008 , Ecuador completed the buyback with an inverse auction for the remaining bondholders , to be settled in cash - rather than a regular exchange in which the legality of undercover purchases was likely to be questioned .
With the larger part of the outstanding stock in friendly hands , and institutional bondholders pressed to liquidate their positions in the midst of the post @-@ Lehman Brothers selloff , the operation was a success .
This episode offers a few preliminary lessons on debt buybacks .
The first concerns the market response .
Judging from the recent evolution of Ecuadorian bond yields , it appears that markets have not punished Ecuador &apos;s behavior : Ecuador , an oil exporter blessed by the 2009 recovery in oil prices , could have returned to the capital markets shortly after the exchange .
This is particularly notable , given that Ecuador &apos;s was perhaps the first opportunistic default ( triggered by unwillingness , rather than inability , to pay ) in recent history .
The second lesson , and the one most pertinent to Europe now , concerns the crucial role played by the default scenario .
Indeed , almost two years of default threats by Correa were not enough to elicit a deep discount .
Ecuador needed to go all the way to a &quot; credit event &quot; in December 2008 to be able to purchase the bonds at bargain prices .
The premise that only a credible default ensures significant private @-@ sector involvement ( that is , that private bondholders take a real hit ) is apparent when we compare the market @-@ friendly Uruguayan debt exchange in 2003 with the draconian Argentine restructuring of 2005 .
In Uruguay , what the authorities presented as a voluntary transaction produced no nominal haircuts and only minor debt relief ; in Argentina , a four @-@ year debt moratorium was essential to achieving nominal haircuts above 50 % .
So the question arises : how are private bondholders to be convinced to get rid of their Greek bonds at a loss if there is a credible buyer of last resort ?
If Europe credibly volunteered funds to buy back all Greek debt , the Greek risk premium would disappear and private investors would be fully bailed out .
Only the probability of a default - and the goal of avoiding even deeper haircuts - can induce investors to liquidate their positions at a discount .
But the buyback can succeed only if the market perceives it as the last chance before a unilateral debt restructuring .
In other words , a successful buyback is a preamble to default .
Can Greece , with the EFSF &apos;s help , obtain debt relief while avoiding default ?
Small purchases at current panic prices , vulture @-@ fund style , are always possible , but they do not promise substantial debt relief .
Large purchases would drive up prices in the secondary market , defeating the point of the whole operation .
And the opaque Ecuadorian methods are not possible in Europe , both for legal reasons and because a transaction of this size could hardly be disguised or outsourced .
But what if the EFSF were to mimic Banco del Pacífico in a transparent way , say , by setting a threshold spread level above which it would fund buy @-@ backs of any Greek bond in the market ?
Naturally , the spread would automatically converge to the threshold , but how much would be sold ?
Would the EFSF be retiring Greek debt at bargain prices or would it be providing insurance to current bondholders ?
If the threshold spread is set reasonably high in order to achieve a significant discount , the stock of debt retired by the buyback would be marginal .
After all , by capping spreads , the buyback facility would limit the downside risk while providing incentives to hold the bonds and wait for the upside - a good reason , perhaps , to make the facility a temporary offer .
By contrast , if the threshold is set low enough to bring spreads down from panic levels , purchases will be more substantive , but at the expense of reducing considerably the effective haircut on private holders .
A debt buyback is something of a Catch 22 : to succeed in inducing a haircut , it needs to profit from the default fears that it intends to alleviate .
Without Ecuador &apos;s gimmicks , buybacks do not seem to be the solution to Greece &apos;s debt overhang .
An Arab Marshall Plan
OXFORD - The wave of revolts that swept across the Arab world two years ago were fueled by demands for freedom , bread , and social justice .
But , although the revolutions toppled dictators and transformed societies , these core objectives remain as distant as ever .
In fact , the economic challenges facing the Arab Spring countries have become even more pressing , weighing heavily on these countries &quot; political prospects .
Unemployment has nearly doubled in Tunisia and Egypt , and foreign direct investment has dried up across the Arab world .
Tourism revenues , while resilient , are declining , and fiscal challenges remain considerable .
But the economic urgency is not reflected in the policy response , which has been painfully slow or non @-@ existent .
For example , Egypt &apos;s fiscal deficit will exceed 11 % of GDP this year .
But the country &apos;s leaders have been stalling on the terms of a much @-@ needed International Monetary Fund loan .
The government &apos;s reduction of fuel subsidies last year was not followed by additional reforms , and the required tax increase was delayed soon after President Mohamed Morsi announced it .
Almost all political stakeholders in Egypt , as in the other Arab countries in transition , recognize the need for economic reform .
But neither citizens nor policymakers appear willing to bear its social and political costs .
In a charged and uncertain political climate , in which new crises erupt on a daily basis , it is unsurprising that economic reform has been postponed repeatedly .
Politicians know that macroeconomic stabilization and social cohesion can be irreconcilable in the short run .
Slashing food and energy subsidies in order to reduce fiscal strain is unlikely to win favor in a country like Egypt , where 40 % of per capita income is allocated to food .
Politics is thus constraining efforts to strengthen public finances .
At the same time , narrow IMF prescriptions threaten to exacerbate political instability , with citizens no longer afraid to take to the streets to demonstrate their dissatisfaction .
The current impasse on economic reform highlights a larger point : subsidy and tax regimes cannot be reformed without first redefining the underlying social contract , which has long exchanged welfare distribution for political acquiescence .
But such a move is far too risky for an individual politician , or even a single country , at a time of economic uncertainty and high unemployment .
In order to create the political space needed for economic reform , Arab leaders must underwrite a regional growth pact - a Marshall Plan of sorts - that would facilitate major new investments aimed at reviving economic activity .
It is much easier to reform subsidy programs when the economy is expanding .
Moreover , building competitive markets is essential to ensuring sustainable GDP growth .
To this end , regional trade barriers , which are more pervasive in the Arab world than even in Sub @-@ Saharan Africa , must be dismantled .
By agreeing to the pact , Arab countries would commit to reforming their subsidy systems and to reducing restrictions on cross @-@ border economic exchange .
The regional dimension of prosperity has long been ignored in the Arab world .
But weak regional linkages limit small firms &quot; growth potential , forcing them to depend on state patronage .
Although Arab leaders often cite Turkey as a beacon of hope , they rarely acknowledge that the country &apos;s recent transformation from the &quot; sick man of Europe &quot; to one of the world &apos;s fastest @-@ growing emerging markets would not have been possible had it not pursued regional synergies .
Such linkages are particularly important for Egypt and Tunisia , which will struggle to reduce unemployment unless Libya &apos;s labor market - which has historically absorbed migrants from its North African neighbors - is reopened .
And , while Tunisia &apos;s situation seems to be the most promising , a crippling investment shortfall is threatening to derail reform efforts there .
With Europe mired in crisis , capital flows from Tunisia &apos;s resource @-@ rich Arab neighbors are its best hope .
Furthermore , Arab countries must ratchet up development spending .
Given that existing development banks in the region have largely failed to act as vehicles of coordination and commitment , a new institution - resembling the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development - would have to be established to oversee a regional aid push and underwrite the costs of economic transition .
New investment vehicles , such as sovereign wealth funds and Islamic finance , can contribute financing to credit @-@ starved firms .
At the same time , Arab countries must streamline current aid efforts .
For too long , Arab governments have simply thrown money at problems , with the rich Gulf countries effectively subsidizing their troubled neighbors &quot; public services .
Over the last two years , Saudi Arabia has provided more than $ 3 billion to Yemen .
Qatar has provided &amp; # 160 ; $ 5 billion to Egypt since 2011 , with a promise of $ 3 billion more .
And the United Arab Emirates recently pledged $ 2.5 billion to Bahrain .
But unconditional aid only delays reforms , because it weakens budget constraints , which reduces pressure on policymakers and creates moral hazard .
The Arab Spring has exposed fault lines that run not just through individual countries , but also through the entire region .
This calls for redefining relationships not only between citizens and states , but also among Arab countries .
Above all , it is no longer prudent to divide Arab countries between donors and recipients , or between resource @-@ rich and resource @-@ poor countries .
It is in the interest of the entire region - including those countries that do not seem to face an imminent threat of revolt - to contribute to their neighbors &quot; economic revival and facilitate their political transitions .
A History Lesson for Koizumi
Once again , protests against Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi &apos;s annual visit to the Yasukuni shrine are breaking out in China as well as South Korea .
Koizumi &apos;s insistence on paying homage to the war dead interred at Yasukuni , where convicted war criminals from World War II are among the buried , has been damaging relations with Japan &apos;s neighbors for years .
Indeed , Chinese President Hu Jintao continually affirms that he will not hold a summit with a Japanese prime minister who goes to Yasukuni , which most Chinese regard as a glorification of past Japanese aggression and colonialism .
Even some in Japan are becoming critical of Koizumi .
While the public remains negative about Chinese outbursts against Japan , a recent survey indicates that more than 70 % of Japanese view the current state of Japan @-@ China relations as unacceptable .
More people are not supporting Koizumi &apos;s annual pilgrimage to Yasukuni , with seven former prime ministers jointly demanding that he refrain from the visits .
Yet Koizumi remains defiant .
Moreover , Chief Cabinet Secretary Shinzu Abe , the front @-@ runner to succeed him , has openly declared that he will continue to visit the shrine as prime minister .
Foreign Minister Taro Aso , another possible successor to Koizumi , has called for the Japanese Emperor to pray at Yasukuni .
So pessimism appears to be settling in , and the deadlock over Yasukuni appears to be deepening .
But the past can bring us more than just troubles of this kind . Even on the issue of Yasukuni , there are positive lessons to be learned .
Consider Yasuhiro Nakasone , Koizumi &apos;s predecessor in the 1980 &quot; s .
Both are master politicians who remained popular and served long terms in office .
Both are conservative and nationalistic , advocating the revision of the constitution and an assertive political and military role for Japan abroad .
Finally , both are pro @-@ American , with Nakasone declaring Japan to be America &apos;s &quot; unsinkable aircraft carrier &quot; in East Asia and Koizumi sending troops to Iraq in support of the United States @-@ led war effort .
But a crucial difference between Nakasone and Koizumi is often overlooked : their handling of the Yasukuni controversy and relations with China .
Nakasone broke the taboo by being the first prime minister to worship at the Yasukuni shrine in his official capacity on August 15 , 1985 , the fortieth anniversary of the end of World War II .
The decision triggered a severe response from China , where students held demonstrations against his visit .
Bilateral relations were frozen .
But , instead of capitalizing on domestic resentment over China &apos;s criticisms , Nakasone decided not to visit Yasukuni again .
He chose to mend relations with China by focusing on the positive aspects of bilateral ties .
In 1986 , Nakasone went to Beijing at the personal invitation of Chinese Communist Party General Secretary Hu Yaobang and laid the cornerstone for a Sino @-@ Japanese Youth Exchange Center , promising to forge future friendships with China .
This genuine embrace of reconciliation provided much @-@ needed support to Chinese leaders , who were eager to control anti @-@ Japanese sentiments .
Hu praised Nakasone &apos;s courage and warned Chinese youth publicly that if they &quot; think merely of the well @-@ being of their own country ... they are not sober @-@ minded patriots . &quot;
Nakasone emerged from the crisis and was recognized as a capable statesman in managing Japan &apos;s diplomacy with China .
There was no accusation that Nakasone was &quot; selling out &quot; to Beijing .
Nor were his conservative , nationalist , and pro @-@ American credentials damaged .
This episode suggests that Koizumi &apos;s hardline position isn &apos;t the only option .
A Japanese prime minister can be strong without exploiting domestic resentment against the country &apos;s neighbors , and conservative , patriotic , and pro @-@ American while forging a healthy working relationship with China .
Indeed , the cessation of Yasukuni visits would likely open the door to the long @-@ overdue Sino @-@ Japanese summit , which in turn might strengthen moderate voices in China seeking a future @-@ oriented relationship with Japan .
Unfortunately , Koizumi and his allies are not prepared to move forward on the Yasukuni issue .
As Foreign Minister Aso recently put it : &quot; The more China voices &#91; opposition &#93; , the more one feels like going there .
It &apos;s just like when you &apos;re told &quot; Don &apos;t smoke cigarettes , &quot; it actually makes you want to smoke . &quot;
No one expects the current Japanese and Chinese leaders to embrace , as Nakasone and Hu did two decades ago , but it is a sad state of affairs when the leaders of neighboring giants pretend not to see each other at international forums .
If Nakasone , who now urges Koizumi to stop the Yasukuni pilgrimage , were to respond to Aso , he might simply extend the analogy : it is not in Japan &apos;s national interest to continue to inhale Koizumi &apos;s second @-@ hand smoke .
A Human Rights Court for Africa
One crucial insight to be gained from a century of establishing international courts and tribunals is that while momentum is vital , getting things right from the start is equally important .
With little fanfare , January 25 , 2004 , marked a milestone in the history of the protection of human rights in Africa : the entry into force of the Protocol for establishing an African Court on Human and Peoples &apos; Rights .
After Europe and the Americas , Africa will be the third continent with a regional court to redress human rights violations .
Acceptance of the Protocol in the last year by such influential African countries as Algeria , South Africa , and Libya gave the final and sudden impetus to the Court &apos;s establishment , and the critical threshold of fifteen ratifications was reached shortly before the New Year , when the Comoros signed on .
But it is in countries like Burundi , Côte d &apos;Ivoire , Rwanda , and Uganda , which have all ratified the Protocol , that the Court will likely play a major role in checking human rights abuses .
It can do so because the Court &apos;s judgments will be legally binding and thus enforceable in national courts .
In states that accepted the Court &apos;s jurisdiction , individuals will be able to gain access to the Court directly , even to file cases against their own governments .
African NGO &apos;s will be able to ask the Court for advisory opinions , thus strengthening the effectiveness of the African human rights regime .
Clearly , the birth of an African human rights court should be celebrated .
But it risks foundering in the docks , and its launch should therefore be deliberate , not rushed .
The process is now progressing at a startling - and worrying - pace .
Nominations for the first judges have been requested by the end of April , with the aim of holding elections at the African Union summit in Addis Ababa on July 5 @-@ 7 .
Experience elsewhere suggests that once judges have been appointed , rules of procedure drafted and adopted , and the relationship with other international organs shaped , the system will become fixed .
Whatever faults and shortcomings are built in at the beginning will become locked in .
But building a sound international judicial body cannot be rushed ; it requires time and resources - both human and financial - and a lot of support .
It took more than four years to physically establish the International Criminal Court , and it took a massive effort by the United Nations , several major countries , and hundreds of experts , NGO &apos;s , and think tanks to get this done .
Admittedly , sometimes time is a luxury .
The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia ( ICTY ) and Rwanda ( ICTR ) opened for work in less than a year in order to begin addressing heinous crimes that were ongoing .
But the price of that rush job is evident : as cases started flowing in , the courts &apos; governing statute and rules of procedure and evidence had to be patched on the fly .
The statute of the ICTY has been amended four times and the rules of procedure and evidence no less than twenty @-@ seven times .
Figures for the ICTR are only slightly better .
That is a poor record for any court of law , which should afford defendants certainty and procedural fairness .
All this tinkering could be done because there was an extraordinary consensus in the UN Security Council on the need not to delay the trials .
But such agreement is extraordinary .
For courts established by treaty , like the African Court , it will likely prove very hard , if not impossible , to find the majority necessary to support changes .
Moreover , effective courts must be politically independent .
But this can be achieved only if the right conditions are in place from the onset .
The process for nominating judges at the national level is critical .
Candidates who are adequate - and who are widely
In the European human rights system , the nominating process involves civil society and severe scrutiny by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe .
It is only through an open , transparent process that the best candidates - those who give the greatest guarantees of independence - can be identified .
But that takes time .
Moreover , the first bench of any international court is critically important , because it is entrusted to prepare and adopt other key documents - such as the rules of procedure , internal regulations , and financial regulations - that will govern the court for years to come .
When they meet in July in Addis Ababa , African heads of state would be better off discussing where the court will be located , how it will be financed , and , most importantly , agreeing standards for an open , participatory , and transparent process for electing its judges .
They should not rush into nominating judges for a court that is still largely on the drawing board .
Africa is poised to establish its own human rights tribunal , fifty years after Europe , 25 years after the Americas , and two years after the International Criminal Court .
But , above all , Africa needs a human rights court that commands the unreserved and unmitigated respect of the continent &apos;s governments and peoples .
Africa &apos;s leaders should take a few more months to do it right .
A Human Rights Crime In Gaza
Atlanta &amp; # 45 ; &amp; # 45 ; The world is witnessing a terrible human rights crime in Gaza , where a million and a half human beings are being imprisoned with almost no access to the outside world by sea , air , or land . An entire population is being brutally punished .
This gross mistreatment of the Palestinians in Gaza was escalated dramatically by Israel , with United States backing , after political candidates representing Hamas won a majority of seats in the Palestinian Authority parliament in 2006 .
The election was unanimously judged to be honest and fair by all international observers .
Israel and the US refused to accept the right of Palestinians to form a unity government with Hamas and Fatah and now , after internal strife , Hamas alone controls Gaza . Forty @-@ one of the 43 victorious Hamas candidates who lived in the West Bank are now imprisoned by Israel , plus an additional ten who assumed positions in the short @-@ lived coalition cabinet .
Regardless of one &apos;s choice in the partisan struggle between Fatah and Hamas within occupied Palestine , we must remember that economic sanctions and restrictions in delivering water , food , electricity , and fuel are causing extreme hardship among the innocent people in Gaza , about one million of whom are refugees .
Israeli bombs and missiles periodically strike the encapsulated area , causing high casualties among both militants and innocent women and children .
Prior to the highly publicized killing of a woman and her four little children last week , this pattern was illustrated by a previous report from B &apos;Tselem , the leading Israeli human rights organization : 106 Palestinians were killed between February 27 and March 3 .
Fifty @-@ four of them were civilians who didn &apos;t take part in the fighting , and 25 were under 18 years of age .
On a recent trip through the Middle East , I attempted to gain a better understanding of the crisis .
One of my visits was to Sderot , a community of about 20,000 in southern Israel that is frequently struck by rudimentary rockets fired from nearby Gaza .
I condemned these attacks as abominable and an act of terrorism , since most of the thirteen victims during the past seven years have been non @-@ combatants .
Subsequently , I met with leaders of Hamas , both a delegation from Gaza and the top officials in Damascus , Syria .
I made the same condemnation to them , and urged that they declare a unilateral ceasefire or orchestrate with Israel a mutual agreement to terminate all military action in and around Gaza for an extended period .
They responded that such previous action by them had not been reciprocated , and they reminded me that Hamas had previously insisted on a ceasefire throughout Palestine including both Gaza and the West Bank , which Israel had refused .
Hamas then made a public proposal of a mutual ceasefire restricted to Gaza , which the Israelis considered and also rejected .
There are fervent arguments heard on both sides concerning blame for a lack of peace in the Holy Land .
Israel has occupied and colonized the Palestinian West Bank , which is approximately one @-@ fourth ( 28.5 % ) the size of the nation of Israel as recognized by the international community .
Some Israeli religious factions claim a right to the land on both sides of the Jordan River , and others aver that their 205 settlements with some 500,000 people are necessary for &quot; security . &quot;
All Arab nations have agreed to full recognition of Israel if it will comply with key United Nations resolutions .
Hamas has agreed to accept any negotiated peace settlement between Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert , provided it is approved in a referendum among the Palestinian people .
This holds promise of progress , but despite the brief fanfare and positive statements at the peace conference last November in Annapolis , Maryland , a retrogression has occurred in the process .
Nine thousand new Israeli settlement housing units have been announced in Palestine , the number of roadblocks within the West bank has increased , and the stranglehold on Gaza has been tightened .
It is one thing for other leaders to defer to the US on the crucial peace negotiations , but the world must not stand idle while innocent people are treated cruelly .
It is time for strong voices in Europe , the US , Israel , and elsewhere to speak out and condemn this human rights tragedy among the Palestinian people .
A Hundred Years of Superconductivity
CHICAGO - The world &apos;s first &quot; quantum &quot; computer - a machine that harnesses the magic of quantum phenomena to perform memory and processing tasks incredibly faster than today &apos;s silicon @-@ based computer chips - was recently sold by D @-@ Wave Systems of Canada to Lockheed @-@ Martin .
And , while some question whether the machine is truly a quantum computer , its designers have published articles in peer @-@ reviewed journals demonstrating that the basic elements of this novel computer are indeed superconducting quantum bits .
This spring marked the 100th anniversary of the discovery of superconductivity - the ability of materials to carry electrical current with no loss .
Currents set up in superconducting wires can exist for years without any measurable decay .
Because of this property , superconductors have unique features that can be exploited in many ways .
They can carry enormous amounts of current , making them ideal for urban power grids .
And , when wound into coils , they can produce extremely strong magnetic fields .
Such superconducting magnets have been applied in a variety of technologies .
The best @-@ known examples are the magnets that drive the magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) machines found in most hospitals .
Perhaps the most exotic are the huge magnets used to accelerate particles in the Large Hadron Collider , which seeks to discover the fundamental principles of matter .
Despite their great promise , however , superconductors have limits , the primary one being that most superconduct at very low temperatures - indeed , near absolute zero ( -273 ºC ) .
Such temperatures can be achieved only through liquid @-@ helium cooling .
Thus , Swiss researchers caused excitement in 1986 by announcing the discovery of superconductivity in an oxide of copper at twice the temperature of the previous record holder .
Shortly thereafter , researchers in the United States found a related material that superconducts above the temperature at which air liquefies .
As Time magazine proclaimed in May 1987 , with the discovery of these so @-@ called &quot; cuprates , &quot; the superconducting revolution had begun .
Alas , the revolution soon bogged down .
Cuprates are notoriously difficult materials to work with , because they are very brittle .
This is exacerbated by their strong anisotropy - the materials have a quasi @-@ two @-@ dimensional structure consisting of a weakly coupled stack of conducting sheets .
As such , they are a challenge for industry , though applications are beginning to appear .
Since the cuprates first appeared , a variety of other &quot; high temperature &quot; superconductors have been discovered - one is a simple compound of magnesium and boron , and another involves a mixture of iron and arsenic .
Although none of them superconduct at temperatures as high as liquid air , they may ultimately be better materials with which to work .
Given the vast number of combinations of elements that can form compounds , there is a good chance that better superconductors await our discovery .
In the coming years , superconductors are expected to play a growing role in technology .
Already , &quot; second generation &quot; cuprate wires are being used to make high @-@ capacity cables for electric @-@ power transmission , and lighter @-@ weight generators for wind turbines .
Stronger superconducting magnets are leading to the development of MRIs with more sophisticated diagnostic capabilities .
Superconductors are being used for levitated trains in high @-@ speed rail transport , and as microwave filters for improved signal bandwidth in cellular base stations .
The discovery of a new superconductor with enhanced properties could lead to even greater technological innovation .
This brings us to the intellectual challenge of superconductors .
It took 46 years from the discovery of superconductivity to the 1957 Bardeen , Cooper , and Schrieffer ( BCS ) theory of how the phenomenon occurs .
Along the way , a number of famous physicists tried and failed to get the answer - Albert Einstein , Werner Heisenberg , and Richard Feynman being notable examples .
Discovering the solution required the development of advanced theoretical techniques .
What had been difficult to figure out was how to get electrons to superconduct .
The basic discovery of BCS was that if the electrons pair up , those couples could indeed superconduct .
Fortunately , the mechanism for such coupling was known .
Although electrons are negatively charged , and therefore repel one another , the positive ions that they leave behind when they flow through a metal can mediate an effective attraction between two electrons under restrictive conditions ( for example , the metal must be very cold ) .
The suspicion , though , is that this is not the case in the new superconductors .
Cuprates superconduct at much higher temperatures , but , more importantly , they possess some exotic properties : they are formed by doping electrical carriers into a host material that is a magnetic insulator - the last place one would look for a conventional superconductor .
And , unlike BCS theory , in which the pairs are isotropic - with identical properties in all directions in space - the pairs in cuprates are strongly anisotropic , resembling a cloverleaf .
How can one pair electrons without ions holding them together , thereby enabling higher @-@ temperature superconductors ?
While ideas about this abound , new theoretical breakthroughs most likely will be needed to develop the machinery required to solve such electron @-@ electron theories , perhaps even involving black holes .
Whatever the theory turns out to be , it is certain to revolutionize physics .
A Japanese Metamorphosis ?
OSAKA - Yesterday &apos;s landslide general @-@ election victory by the Democratic Party of Japan ( DPJ ) terminated the one @-@ party @-@ dominated system that the catch @-@ all Liberal Democratic Party ( LDP ) has controlled almost without interruption since 1955 .
For most of the last decade , the DPJ was not seen as a viable alternative to the LDP , although they appeared to form a pseudo @-@ two @-@ party system .
Twenty years after the Cold War &apos;s end , Japan will at last have a post @-@ Cold War system of government .
The Japanese public , even now , remains uncertain about the DPJ &apos;s ability to govern and is skeptical of its rosy programs of wealth redistribution , which lack solid funding .
The public is also fully aware that the ideologically fragmented DPJ lacks a pragmatic , coherent foreign and security policy
Yet the DPJ will form the next government because of public disgust with the LDP .
For the last four years , the LDP had shown itself to be utterly unresponsive to the key issues of popular concern : pensions , unemployment , and the fraying social safety net .
Moreover , the LDP was plagued by a string of minor scandals and consistent bungling .
The LDP &apos;s need for three different prime ministers in the space of little more than a year made plain that the party &apos;s power nucleus had melted down .
Once in power , the DPJ will immediately confront the massive bureaucracy and entrenched mandarins , which usually sabotage any efforts at administrative reform that threatens their power and vested interests .
Indeed , immediately after the election , the budget estimates for the next fiscal year are due .
The figures that will be presented are the result of a lengthy process , in which the bureaucracy closely consulted with LDP .
So , without breaking the regular budget cycle , the DPJ will be forced to implement not only the supplementary budget drawn up by the LDP , but will also be stuck with next year &apos;s budget , which embodies LDP policies that the DPJ has denounced .
As a result , the DPJ has announced plans to revoke the LDP &apos;s guidelines for a ceiling on budget requests so as to formulate its own budget from scratch . It will also revise the supplementary budget as well .
But time is short , and few of new DPJ lawmakers possess the legislative experience and budgetary expertise to make that happen .
To gain control of the mandarins , the DPJ plans to place 100 lawmakers in the ministries &quot; top leadership , as well as three dozen political appointees to policy staffs in the office of the prime minister .
Unfortunately , the DPJ scrapped an LDP @-@ sponsored civil @-@ service reform bill , which would have allowed the DPJ to replace mandarins with an army of political appointees .
The DPJ , despite its manifesto , seems unprepared to tame the mandarins , and so may be forced to rely on them .
The ascendency of the mandarins is a legacy of Japan &apos;s unique historical development dating back to its early modern period .
Unlike in Europe , Japan developed its state before building a strong civil society .
Indeed , full @-@ fledged &quot; society &quot; -building started only after the 1868 Meiji Restoration , which tipped the balance of power definitively in favor of the state .
As a result , the mandarins survived WWII and the postwar American occupation relatively undamaged , and they will strive to survive the DPJ government as well .
They will most likely succeed .
LDP lawmakers and mandarins developed a routine in which mandarins drafted cabinet @-@ sponsored bills , LDP lawmakers checked the bills , and the two together finalized legislative drafts before they were introduced to the Diet ( parliament ) .
Since the LDP , recently with a coalition partner , controlled the Diet , the legislative process was simply the interaction between LDP lawmakers and mandarins , centered in the LDP &apos;s headquarters .
The Diet &apos;s role was merely pro forma .
Indeed , under the LDP @-@ led one @-@ party @-@ dominant system , this extra @-@ constitutional mechanism became an integral part of Japan &apos;s government polity .
The DPJ government will collide head @-@ on with the mandarins , partly because the party will find it hard to recruit sufficiently qualified policymakers .
The mandarins have maintained their privileged position in this regard , owing partly to the tax system , which prevents the emergence of non @-@ profit institutions , especially think tanks , where independent policy expertise can be forged .
Moreover , perhaps in anticipation of a change in power , the mandarins have moved forward the annual personnel changes in the major ministries &quot; top administrative positions .
And what of the LDP ?
Having fallen from power , it will lose its control of the redistribution of government funds .
Unable to pay off its constituencies , disintegration looms , for the LDP has never been a party with entrenched grass @-@ roots support , but instead operates as a machine of power and redistribution through a web of insiders across the country &apos;s industrial sectors , occupational associations , and local communities .
Only by recruiting new blood and reorganizing itself with a solid ideological platform will an LDP comeback be possible .
The DPJ has even weaker grass @-@ roots support , so the mandarins will most likely use their standard techniques of divide and rule to cajole the party by teaching it to mimic the LDP in using state money and contracts to underwrite its major constituencies , such as labor unions and other interest groups .
The birth of the DPJ government can yet be a turning point .
A major power shift in favor of &quot; society &quot; has taken place .
If the DPJ can break free of mandarin control by centralizing policy formation in the office of the prime minister , as it intends , Japan can emerge as a more resilient democracy with a full @-@ fledged two @-@ party system and greater willingness to assume an international leadership role .
A Jobless Recovery ?
CAMBRIDGE - Who will suffer the longest and the most from the implosion in 2008 @-@ 2009 of Wall Street and the ensuing world recession ?
Not the bankers and financiers who created the disaster .
Some financiers , like Bernard Madoff , will go to prison for fraud .
But , although Madoff was only the tip of the iceberg of rampant financial malfeasance , most suspect financiers need not fear arrest , either because their behavior merely skirted the law , or because financial impropriety more subtle than outright fraud is often difficult to prove .
Some bank bosses will retire in shame , but with huge payments to ease their pain - such as the $ 55 million golden parachute handed to Bank of America &apos;s Ken Lewis , with his , and the £ 25 million pension bestowed on Royal Bank of Scotland &apos;s Fred Godwin .
But , buoyed by government bailout money , guarantees , and low interest rates , many banks have again begun to pay their top managers huge bonuses while fighting vigorously against reforms designed to restrain their risk @-@ taking and compensation .
The big losers from this economic disaster are workers in the advanced countries that bought into the laissez @-@ faire flexibility of American @-@ style capitalism .
From 2007 to October 2009 , the United States lost nearly eight million jobs , which reduced the employment @-@ population ratio from 63 % to 58.5 % .
The unemployment rate at the end of 2009 was above 10 % , duration of joblessness was the longest since the Great Depression , millions had had their working hours cut , and millions more were too discouraged by a lack of jobs to seek work .
Advanced Europe , Canada , and Japan also suffered major job losses that will last for a long time .
Spain , which allows for widespread temporary contracts , has had the biggest increase in unemployment , because Spanish workers can be fired as quickly as those in the US .
Some countries - for example , Germany , Sweden , and South Korea - have &quot; hidden &quot; their joblessness by paying firms to keep workers on the payroll .
This can work in the short term , but it cannot be sustained over time .
From the 1980 &quot; s through the mid @-@ 2000 &quot; s , employment has increasingly lagged GDP in economic recoveries .
In the US , there was a jobless recovery under President Bill Clinton until the dot.com boom in the latter part of the 1990 &quot; s , and there was a jobless recovery under George W. Bush in the wake of the 2001 slowdown .
In the early 1990 &quot; s , Sweden suffered a huge recession precipitated by a housing bubble and a banking crisis .
Its unemployment rate rose from 1.8 % in 1990 to 9.6 % in 1994 , before bottoming out at 5 % in 2001 .
Sixteen years after the crisis , the unemployment rate was 6.2 % - more than triple the rate in 1990 .
In 1997 , Korea suffered not only from the Asian financial crisis , but also from insistence by the US and the International Monetary Fund that it raise interest rates and undertake &quot; Washington Consensus &quot; -style reforms to receive aid .
Employment recovered , but primarily in &quot; non @-@ regular &quot; jobs with limited benefits , low wages , and little job security .
Inequality in Korea rose from moderate levels to second highest ( behind the US ) among advanced OECD countries .
Weakness in the job market takes a huge toll on economic and personal well @-@ being .
Young people seeking their first jobs and experienced workers who lose jobs in a weak job market suffer economic losses that will last their entire lives .
Studies of happiness show that unemployment reduces happiness by as much as the loss of a family member .
It is difficult to see the US re @-@ attaining full employment anytime soon .
From 1993 to 1998 , the US created millions of jobs , which raised the employment rate by 5.4 percentage points .
If employment began rising at this rate in 2010 , it would take until 2015 before it reached its pre @-@ recession level .
And slow recovery in the US will drag down recovery in other advanced countries , reducing their employment as well .
A long , painful period of high unemployment runs counter to what most experts believed the flexible US economic model would ever produce .
From the early 1990 &quot; s on , many analysts viewed America &apos;s weak unionization , at @-@ will employment , limited legal job protection , and high job turnover as major factors in achieving a lower unemployment rate than most EU countries .
Many OECD countries initiated various kinds of flexibility reforms in the hope of improving their economies along US lines .
The view that flexibility is the key factor in employment is no longer tenable .
In its 2009 Employment Outlook , the OECD took a hard look at its favored policy reforms and found them deficient in helping countries adjust to a finance @-@ driven recession .
According to the OECD , &quot; there does not appear to be any strong reason to expect that recent structural reforms mean that OECD labor markets are now substantially less sensitive to severe economic downturns . &quot;
So the lesson from the recession is clear .
The weak reed in capitalism is not the labor market , but the financial market .
At worst , labor @-@ market failures impose modest inefficiency costs on society , whereas capital @-@ market failures harm society greatly , with workers , rather than the perpetrators of financial disaster , suffering the most .
Moreover , globalization means that the US capital market &apos;s failure spreads misery around the world .
We owe it to workers victimized by this recession to reinvent finance so that it works to enrich the real economy , instead of enriching only the financiers .
This means changing the incentives and rules that govern the financial sector .
Since other countries &quot; economies and jobs are also at stake , they owe it to their citizens to press the US to deliver meaningful financial reforms .
France &apos;s Midsummer Night &apos;s Dream
PARIS - Bastille Day , the French national holiday , was glorious this year .
The military parade , dominated by the celebration of &quot; victory &quot; in Mali and the joint participation of African and United Nations troops , had the perfection of a gracious , albeit muscular , ballet .
The classical concert that preceded the magisterial fireworks that ended the day was the closest thing to a French version of the Proms in London , mixing light classical and popular songs .
The Eiffel Tower imbued the evening with its magic .
Paris , in case anyone had any lingering doubts , remains the capital of the world - or so it seemed for a night .
The melancholia that began to seize France many years ago was all but forgotten .
The celebration of the glory of the past , mixed with popular English songs of the present , seemed to indicate renewed national confidence .
What was the meaning of this moment of grace ?
Was it purely the product of a collective delusion , an emotional Potemkin village of sorts , encouraged , if not conceived , by the authorities to restore some level of self @-@ assurance among France &apos;s depressed citizens ?
Even if the positive emotions remain only fleeting ( as seems most likely ) , they were real and palpable .
The French seemed to be in the mood to celebrate .
Of course , it could simply have been the weather ; a gorgeous summer has finally settled in after a miserable spring .
But it might also have been one of those natural turning points , a collective and spontaneous decision to say : &quot; Enough of depression , let &apos;s move on . &quot; We French may not be what we used to be , the celebrants seemed to be saying , but we are still much more than people think we are .
We have a great revolutionary past that still conveys universal values - liberty , equality , fraternity - and an army that , as in Mali , continues to make a difference in the world .
One can draw two lessons from this collective form of escapism .
The first is that , beyond the many layers of depression and distrust in France , there is potential for a new and collective departure .
This would require , of course , less cynical political elites who can transcend their petty ambitions and divisions for the sake of the country .
The second lesson , even more obvious , is that reality cannot be changed with a simple public spectacle .
France is not Imperial Rome , where panem et circenses made a fundamental difference .
It is a weakened democracy mired in an economic and social crisis so deep that it verges on becoming an identity crisis .
The proof was provided by a third traditional event on Bastille Day , between the morning &apos;s military parade and the evening &apos;s music and fireworks : President François Hollande &apos;s speech to the nation , which took the form of an interview with two prominent journalists .
He , too , was in a reassuring mood .
According to Hollande , the economic upturn - la reprise - had just started , and hope was around the corner .
His tone and message had changed .
He was no longer the &quot; normal man &quot; of his election campaign and tenure until now ; instead , he tried to present himself , like his predecessor , Nicolas Sarkozy , as a superhero .
Of course , given his personality and low public @-@ approval ratings , his address was the least convincing event of the day .
Who could have said with certainty that the economic upturn announced by Hollande was real rather than aspirational ?
Beyond his message &apos;s wishful thinking , the public &apos;s reaction to the messenger was a mixture of disbelief and indifference .
Seeing the behavior of friends , all French , listening with me to Hollande , I was reminded of another moment .
It was December 31 , 1989 , and I was in the Soviet Union . I had found myself in a restaurant in the old city of Suzdal , listening to President Mikhail Gorbachev &apos;s &quot; New Year wishes . &quot;
I was moved : The man who symbolized glasnost and perestroika , who had allowed the peaceful emancipation of most of Eastern and Central Europe , was speaking .
But I was alone in paying attention to him .
The restaurant &apos;s customers , like my French friends now , could not have cared less .
Their president had become background noise .
Has Hollande become , in this sense , a French Gorbachev ?
For the left and the Greens , he is close to being a traitor .
These voters chose him a year ago not only because he was not Sarkozy , but because he incarnated the values of the true left , even if his centrist moderation seemed a bad omen .
Voters of the center or even the center @-@ right are disappointed , too , by their president &apos;s lack of charisma , if not sheer incompetence .
After a year of Hollande , France is witnessing a fundamental political revolution .
During the half @-@ century of the Fifth Republic , a bipartisan system of left and right has traditionally prevailed .
But now France is becoming a country dominated by a &quot; tripartite system &quot; of more or less equal strength : the left , the right , and the extreme right .
If France wants to capitalize on the positive emotions of Bastille Day , it needs much more responsible elites , ready to unite in the fight against unemployment and its causes ( lack of competitiveness and labor @-@ market rigidity ) and consequences ( the rise of populist , non @-@ republican forces ) .
What Bastille Day revealed , even briefly and superficially , is that the potential to unite France exists .
But doing so requires more than shallow promises .
A Kick @-@ Off for Peace ?
Yerevan - Armenian President Serzh Sargsyan &apos;s recent invitation to Turkish President Abdullah Gul to visit Yerevan to watch a football match together was historic .
Given the two countries &quot; long @-@ strained relations , this visit would have been remarkable at any time .
But coming as it does only one month after the alarming Russian @-@ Georgian confrontation , it may offer real hope that tensions in the volatile Caucasus region can be eased .
Of course , ancient and difficult issues divide Armenia and Turkey .
But now is the moment for both countries to put the past aside in order to address their common security concerns .
In the new context set by the war in Georgia , the urgency of Turkey becoming a real bridge between the nations of the Caucasus is not lost on anyone .
This expectation is an inevitable consequence of Turkey &apos;s geography and history .
Situated figuratively between modernity and tradition , secularism and Islam , and democracy and tyranny , Turkey also is an actual physical bridge between East and West .
For the peoples of the Caucasus , Turkey marks our path to Europe .
It is a NATO member , bordering the three Caucasus republics that have NATO Individual Partnership Action Programs .
It aspires to join the European Union , and would bring the EU to our three borders , even as we , too , aspire to join one day .
Indeed , Turkey has never missed an opportunity to present itself as a regional broker .
Immediately after the collapse of the Soviet Union , Turkey proposed the Black Sea Economic Cooperation .
This year , as the American @-@ led effort to mediate a Middle East peace settlement began to falter , Turkey took up the job of mediator in both the Israeli @-@ Palestinian conflict and the conflict between Syria and Israel .
Now , in the immediate wake of the Russia @-@ Georgia crisis , Turkey &apos;s leaders have stepped forward once again to take a leadership role in the Caucasus .
The world must fervently hope that the Turkish proposal for a Caucasus Stability and Cooperation Platform is more serious and sustained than previous similar efforts .
But , in order to succeed , Turkey must firmly pursue a pledge from all the region &apos;s players to repudiate the use of force in settling their disputes .
If this pledge is adopted and respected , conflicts in the region will be viewed in a wholly different , more tolerant context , marking a historic breakthrough to peace .
In fact , why not take the idea of such a pact one step further ?
We in this region can , and I believe should , call for a non @-@ aligned Caucasus , free of security blocs and adversarial alliances .
After all , security alliances and guarantees only create dividing lines , with their attendant security challenges .
Our countries and peoples have , throughout history , lived under a common umbrella for far longer than we have been divided .
Today , we share a common vision of European integration , and it is in this broader context that our conflicts should be resolved .
French President Nicolas Sarkozy &apos;s and German Chancellor Angela Merkel &apos;s visits to Georgia and Russia proved that there is no substitute for Europe insofar as the Caucasus is concerned .
Only Europe can play the role of honest broker in the region &apos;s atmosphere of suspicion and intolerance .
But , at the end of the day , we ourselves must be willing to work toward a region of peace and cooperation .
The Caucasus is too small a space for closed borders and explosive conflicts .
Although some of those tensions appear purely bilateral , the Georgian @-@ Russian conflict demonstrates that there is no such thing anymore in this globalized world , and certainly not in this interconnected region .
In fact , real peace in the Caucasus requires two key strategic transformations .
One is a lesson from history : Russia &apos;s strategic interests here cannot be ignored .
To believe and behave otherwise would lead to regional chaos .
The other lesson is that Turkey and Armenia cannot remain adversaries forever .
There must be normalization in our relations in order for the Caucasus to coalesce into a functional region .
Ironically , both Russia and the United States recognize that this is in their interest .
The Russians view normal relations between Turkey and Armenia as a way to minimize Georgia &apos;s strategic role in the region .
The US views an opening to Turkey as a way to decrease Armenia &apos;s real and imagined reliance on Russia .
Beyond the emotional impact of President Gul &apos;s visit to Yerevan , real improvement in Turkish @-@ Armenian relations requires opening the two countries &quot; closed border - the last in Europe .
Or , for a start , the existing railroad link between the two countries could be made operational .
If this does not happen within the coming weeks and months , then Turkey will have demonstrated that all this was just a show .
President Gul &apos;s visit does mark a watershed - either as a failure to make history , or as the beginning of a new era .
A Lasting Poison
NEW YORK - Next year will mark the twentieth anniversary of the collapse of communism in Europe .
Liberated from the complexity of knowing too much about the cruel past , the young people of Eastern Europe &apos;s post @-@ communist generation seem uninterested in what their parents and grandparents endured .
Yet the recent revelation of the Czech writer Milan Kundera &apos;s presumed complicity in the face of Stalinism is but the latest of the long half @-@ life of a toxic past .
Other examples come to mind : the accusations of collaboration with the secret police raised against Lech Walesa , Romania &apos;s public controversies surrounding Mircea Eliade &apos;s fascist past , and the attacks on the alleged &quot; Jewish monopoly of suffering &quot; which equate the Holocaust with the Soviet Gulag .
Friedrich Nietzsche said that if you look in the eye of the Devil for too long , you risk becoming a devil yourself .
A Bolshevik anticommunism , similar in its dogmatism to communism itself , has from time to time run riot in parts of Eastern Europe .
In country after country , that Manichean mindset , with its oversimplifications and manipulations , was merely re @-@ fashioned to serve the new people in power .
Opportunism has had its share in this , of course .
In 1945 , when the Red Army occupied Romania , the Communist Party had no more than 1,000 members ; in 1989 , it had almost four million .
One day after Nicolae Ceausescu &apos;s execution , most of these people suddenly became fierce anticommunists and victims of the system they had served for decades .
Residual traces of totalitarian thinking can also be found in the hostility to former dissidents like Adam Michnik or Václav Havel , both of whom argued that the new democracies should not exploit resentments or seek revenge , as the totalitarian state did , but instead build a new national consensus to structure and empower a genuine civil society .
Former generals of the secret police and members of the Communist
But the case of Kundera appears different - though no less disturbing .
In 1950 , Kundera , then a 20 @-@ year @-@ old Communist , reportedly denounced to the criminal police as a Western spy a man he had never met - a friend of his friend &apos;s girlfriend .
The man was later brutally interrogated in a former Gestapo torture facility and spent 14 years in prison .
Kundera &apos;s name was contained in the investigating officer &apos;s report , which was authenticated after a respected historian discovered it in a dusty Prague archive .
The reclusive Kundera , who immigrated to Paris in 1975 , has declared that &quot; it never happened . &quot; Moreover , Czechoslovakia &apos;s fearsome secret police , who had every interest in silencing or compromising the famous dissident writer , never used the incident to blackmail or expose him .
Until more information is forthcoming , both from Kundera and from the authorities , the case will not be solved &quot; beyond reasonable doubt . &quot;
But
As far as we know , Kundera never was an informer before or after this incident , and we cannot ignore that he later freed himself from the compulsory totalitarian happiness that communism propagated .
Indeed , his case also serves as a reminder that the early 1950 &quot; s was the most brutal period of &quot; proletarian dictatorship &quot; in Eastern Europe - a period of great enthusiasm and terrible fear that poisoned the minds and souls of devoted believers , fierce opponents , and apathetic bystanders alike .
Moreover , Kundera &apos;s case is hardly unique .
In 2006 , the Nobel Prize @-@ winning German author Günter Grass &apos;s disclosed that , 60 years earlier , he was , as a teenager , a member of the Waffen @-@ SS .
Similarly , a few years ago , the world was shocked to learn that famous Italian writer Ignazio Silone had , in his youth , collaborated with the fascist police .
Daily life under totalitarianism , be it communist or fascist , was routinely based on a deep duplicity whose effects are longstanding .
I don &apos;t agree with those who say we should not be interested in the dark episodes in the life of a great writer .
Why not ?
We should be interested not for prosecutorial purposes , but in order to gain a more profound understanding of a bloody , demagogical , and tyrannical Utopia - and of human weakness and vulnerability . We may even consider it a rewarding testament to an artist &apos;s ability to overcome his past mistakes and still produce priceless work .
But can we justifiably defend morally compromised artists and intellectuals on the basis of their work &apos;s merit , yet condemn ordinary people for often less grave offenses ?
An egregious example of this was the way followers of Romanian philosopher Constantin Noica defended his support for the fascist Iron Guard and his later collaboration with the Communists , while at the same time condemning even a generic cleaning woman for mopping the floors in the offices of the secret police .
Shouldn &apos;t that cleaner &apos;s drudgery to support her family , children , and her own survival be taken equally into account ?
Life under totalitarianism was an extreme situation that requires us to apply special , nuanced rules to
In Eastern Europe today , old and young alike stand to benefit from that lesson .
Moses wandered with his people in the desert for 40 years , until they had rid themselves of the poisonous slave mentality .
A League of Democracies ?
LONDON - Senator John McCain , the Republican presidential candidate , has been calling for the creation of a &quot; League of Democracies . &quot;
This new international group would possess a formidable military capacity , based partly on NATO and partly on a &quot; new quadrilateral security partnership &quot; in the Pacific between Australia , India , Japan , and the US .
Neither Russia nor China , of course , would be invited to join : indeed , McCain wants to exclude Russia from the G8 .
The League is necessary , argues McCain , because in matters vital to the US , such as fighting Islamic terrorism , humanitarian intervention , and spreading liberty , democracy , and free markets , the US and its democratic partners must be able to act without permission from the United Nations ( i.e. , from Russia and China ) .
In other words , the League &apos;s main purpose is to marginalize Russia and China in world affairs .
The most damning criticism of McCain &apos;s plan is that it would launch a new Cold War between states labeled democracies and autocracies .
This is not only dangerous , but incoherent .
Russia and China do not &quot; threaten &quot; the &quot; free world &quot; with a powerful ideology and massive armed forces , as they did during the Cold War .
Moreover , the world &apos;s democracies are themselves divided on how to deal with Islamic terrorism or genocide in Darfur : it was France , after all , which led the opposition in the UN Security Council to the US invasion of Iraq .
Moreover , on issues like terrorism , nuclear proliferation , and climate change , the US needs Russian and Chinese help .
Stigmatizing Russia and China as pariahs will not get them on board .
( China must learn to behave &quot; responsibly , &quot; McCain declares with breath @-@ taking condescension . ) In fact , Russia has mostly cooperated with the US in the &quot; war against terrorism . &quot;
Finally , the idea is impracticable .
One cannot imagine India or Brazil wanting to be part of any such a combination .
So we would all spare ourselves an awful lot of trouble if McCain &apos;s brainchild were buried as quickly as possible .
Yet underlying this idea is a serious proposition , to which Britain &apos;s former prime minister , Tony Blair , often gave eloquent expression : democracies don &apos;t fight each other , so if the whole world were democratic , wars would stop .
Presumably , McCain &apos;s League of Democracies is designed to bring Immanuel Kant &apos;s dream of perpetual peace closer to realization by putting pressure on non @-@ democracies to change their ways , by force if necessary .
Leave aside the fact that efforts to make democracy bloom have become bloodily unstuck in Iraq and Afghanistan . Is it true that democracies never fight each other ?
The affirmative answer seems to depend on two separate claims .
The first is that democracies have , as a matter of historical record , never fought each other .
This is true of a rather small group of rich countries ( India is a partial exception ) , mainly in western Europe and its overseas offshoots , since World War II .
Moroever , they are &quot; our kind &quot; of democracy - constitutional democracies that contain all the features we take for granted in modern Western systems , not &quot; Islamic democracies &quot; like Iran .
A reasonable generalization from this rather small sample would be that &quot; prosperous and constitutional democracies tend to live in peace with each other . &quot;
The second claim is that these countries live in peace because they are democracies .
But is it democracy that has brought them peace and prosperity , or is it peace and prosperity that have brought democracy ?
Is it democracy that has kept Europe peaceful since 1945 , or is it the long period of peace since 1945 that has allowed democracy to become the European norm ?
The world already has a peace @-@ maintaining institution .
The UN was created under rules designed to enable states of different political colors to live together .
Members accept the obligation not to use force except in self @-@ defense or unless it is authorized by the Security Council .
The US is frustrated by not being able to get its way at the UN .
But the UN exists to protect all states from lawless behavior , including by the US .
By implicitly bypassing the UN , and dividing the world into two armed camps , the League of Democracies would increase the danger of war .
The world also already has a prosperity @-@ spreading mechanism .
It is called trade .
In 1994 , the World Trade Organization was created to liberalize trade under agreed rules .
It is full of faults , which need to be corrected . But we don &apos;t need a League of Democracies to do this .
By subjecting trade relations to embargoes , sanctions , and tests of democracy , environmental standards , and human rights , the League is likely to retard the growth of trade , and thus the chance for poor non @-@ democracies to catch up .
The only purpose of the League of Democracies seems to be to legitimize war @-@ making by democracies - in order to spread democracy !
This is the thrust of McCain &apos;s message .
As he put it , the US was built for a purpose - to serve &quot; eternal and universal principles . &quot;
Its God @-@ given task is to build an &quot; enduring global peace on the foundations of freedom , security , prosperity , and hope . &quot;
Noble rhetoric !
But if that is the League &apos;s purpose - and I see no other - then it is a danger to peace .
This is because its advocates believe that no long @-@ term co @-@ existence with non @-@ democracies is possible .
This is crazy and unhistorical .
It is up to the chastened nations of Western Europe , which broadly share American values but have learned something about political patience , to rein in the American fantasy of re @-@ making the world in its own image .
I am all for spreading Western @-@ style democracy , but not at the cost of making the world more warlike .
Peaceful coexistence between different political systems is an attainable objective , and one to which all the world &apos;s major powers can sign up .
A Less @-@ is @-@ More Growth Strategy for Africa
REYKJAVIK - If African countries were to adopt only one policy to boost economic growth and improve macroeconomic stability , they should reduce the number of currencies in circulation across the continent as quickly as possible .
Doing so would most likely encourage trade , as happened in Europe with the arrival of the euro , and could help contain inflation - which is always good for growth - by imposing international discipline on monetary policy .
The African Union is now aiming at pooling all the continent &apos;s currencies into a single currency by 2028 .
In the meantime , several regional monetary unions are on the drawing board , in addition to the two monetary unions that already exist , one
Project Syndicate needs your help to provide readers everywhere equal access to the ideas and debates shaping their lives .
The premier and oldest of these unions is composed of the fourteen countries that belong to the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa and the West African Economic and Monetary Union , which both use the CFA franc .
The second of these unions is composed of Lesotho , Namibia , Swaziland , and now Zimbabwe , all of which use the South African rand .
Disregarding Zimbabwe , a recent and incomplete convert , the 18 countries of the two existing monetary unions have , as intended , benefited from lower inflation than much of the rest of Africa .
To see why , consider Nigeria .
Before independence , Nigeria &apos;s legal tender was the British pound .
With the establishment of the Central Bank of Nigeria in 1959 , the Nigerian pound was introduced .
Back then , one Nigerian pound was equivalent to one British pound .
This arrangement remained intact until 1973 , when Nigeria adopted a new currency , the naira .
The exchange rate remained unchanged : one naira was equivalent to one British pound .
The naira was intended to bolster the country &apos;s independence by making it possible for the central bank to pursue its own monetary policy .
It was also a matter of national pride .
The thinking behind the new arrangement was that an independent and flexible monetary policy would serve the nation &apos;s interest better than a fixed exchange rate that tied the naira to the pound .
But the naira &apos;s introduction quickly put an end to parity with the British pound .
Government expenditure exceeded federal revenue , despite rapidly rising foreign @-@ exchange earnings from oil exports after 1970 .
The federal government &apos;s budget deficits were financed through foreign and domestic borrowing , and by printing money , which led to inflation and depreciation of the new currency .
Today , it costs 220 naira to buy one British pound , which implies 15 % annual average depreciation since 1973 .
This depreciation would perhaps be justifiable had Nigeria managed to use easy money to narrow the gap between ordinary Nigerians &quot; standard of living and that of people living in Britain .
But that did not happen .
The purchasing power of national income per person in Nigeria is now 50 % lower relative to Britain than in 1980 .
In view of this experience , Nigeria now plans to abolish the naira in favor of joining a monetary union with four or five other West African countries ( The Gambia , Ghana , Guinea , Sierra Leone , and perhaps Liberia ) .
But that planned monetary union , until recently envisaged to be launched in 2009 , has now been put on ice .
Why ?
The smallest countries show no signs of fear of being swamped by Nigeria , by far the most populous country in the group ( accounting for 155 million of the six countries &quot; 200 million people ) , especially as the new West African Central Bank is to be located in Accra , the capital of Ghana ( 24 million ) . Others , though , may fear the dilution of their sovereignty when the new Central Bank of the
takes over some of the policymaking responsibilities of national central banks .
But that , of course , is the chief purpose of a monetary union .
When the West African Monetary Zone finally is established , the number of currencies in Africa will equal about half the number of countries .
And when the East African Community with its five members ( Burundi , Kenya , Rwanda , Tanzania , and Uganda ) re @-@ emerges as scheduled , the number of currencies will be reduced by another four .
The belief that sovereign national currencies , by enabling independent and flexible monetary policies , are the best way to foster economic and social development - the vision of Nigeria &apos;s post @-@ colonial leaders - is gradually falling by the wayside .
Efficiency dictates the use of fewer and larger currencies ( and foreign investors , understandably wary of weak and volatile currencies , demand it ) .
Indeed , the success of the European Union and of the euro since its launch in 1999 has made a strong impression in Africa .
A Liquid Europe
BRUSSELS - Is the eurozone stepping back from the brink ?
This might just be possible , because the emerging outlines of a new framework to resolve the ongoing sovereign @-@ debt crisis contain a key component that was missing so far .
Indeed , that component &apos;s absence was behind this summer &apos;s spreading financial crisis , which moved beyond small , peripheral countries like Greece , Ireland , and Portugal to strike systemically important countries like Italy and Spain .
The starting point of the contagion was investors &quot; realization that Europe &apos;s rescue fund , the European Financial Stability Facility , was designed to provide emergency financial support only to the peripheral countries .
It simply does not and will never have enough funds to undertake the massive bond purchases required to stabilize the debt markets of large economies such as Spain and Italy .
The EFSF will have at most € 440 billion at its disposal ( any increase would endanger France &apos;s AAA rating ) , while the combined public debt of Italy and Spain is more than € 2 trillion .
In early August , the domino effect of the eurozone periphery &apos;s sovereign @-@ debt crisis started to kick in , because financial markets do not wait for country after country to be downgraded .
Instead , they tend to anticipate the endgame , or at least one potential scenario , namely the unraveling of the entire crisis @-@ containment structure .
Markets noticed that the euro seemed caught between a rock ( the EFSF &apos;s limited borrowing capacity ) and a hard place ( the European Central Bank &apos;s great reluctance to engage in large @-@ scale purchases of financially troubled governments &quot; bonds ) .
It later turned out that the ECB was not that hard after all , though it emphasized that it would stop intervening as soon as the new EFSF became operational .
And , given the EFSF &apos;s limited firepower , the market would have been left without support .
To state the problem more generally , the eurozone requires a liquidity backstop for its fiscal authority .
In a &quot; normal &quot; economy with its own currency , the fiscal authorities can never face a liquidity shortage , because the government can always rely , at least potentially , on support from the central bank .
A eurozone government , by contrast , is always in a precarious situation : it has only very long @-@ term assets ( its taxing power ) and shorter @-@ term liabilities , namely government debt , much of which has to be rolled over annually .
If investors refuse to buy the debt on any terms , even a fiscally prudent government could find itself in a liquidity squeeze and become insolvent .
Similarly , banks have short @-@ term liabilities ( deposits ) and long @-@ term assets , which they cannot liquidate quickly without incurring great losses .
This is why all countries provide emergency liquidity support when a bank run materializes , as was done on a global scale when confidence in the banking sector collapsed alongside Lehman Brothers in 2008 .
Likewise , the eurozone needs a mechanism to confront runs on its member countries &quot; government debt .
This requires that fiscal authorities have access to a large pool of liquidity in an emergency .
Only the ECB can provide this insurance .
The good news is that a solution is now slowly taking shape that promises to create a mechanism by which the ECB could backstop the EFSF .
This could be achieved simply by registering the EFSF as a bank , which would give it access to normal ECB refinancing on the same terms as other normal banks .
The EFSF could then conduct very large purchases of government debt by levering up its limited capital through ECB refinancing , using the government bonds it is buying as collateral .
In this way , the proper division of labor could be established .
The EFSF would be responsible for dealing with fiscal crises in member states .
For countries with solvency problems , an adjustment program like those for Greece , Ireland , or Portugal would be appropriate .
But , for large countries facing a liquidity shortage , the EFSF could rely on support from the ECB .
If investors know that a liquidity squeeze is no longer possible , they will refrain from speculative attacks on solvent countries .
The near @-@ panic conditions in financial markets eased as soon as rumors spread that this solution had at least been discussed behind closed doors .
It now needs to be implemented .
As always in Europe , there are legal and political obstacles to change .
But even the most reluctant policymakers recognize that the cost of inaction is too great .
The legal obstacles to potential &quot; monetary financing &quot; of the public sector in the European Union &apos;s governing treaties can be overcome .
The more important obstacle is Germany &apos;s reluctance to admit publicly that ECB liquidity support for government debt markets can be crucial in maintaining financial stability .
Only the German government and the ECB can open the door to this subtle but profound reform of the euro &apos;s fundamental underpinnings .
It is a choice that they cannot put off much longer .
A Loan and a Prayer
NEW YORK - The countries known collectively as the PIIGS - Portugal , Ireland , Italy , Greece , and Spain - are burdened with increasingly unsustainable levels of public and private debt . Several of the worst @-@ hit - Portugal , Ireland , and Greece - have seen their borrowing costs soar to record highs in recent weeks , even after their loss of market access led to bailouts financed by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund .
Spanish borrowing costs are also rising .
Greece is clearly insolvent .
Even with a draconian austerity package , totaling 10 % of GDP , its public debt would rise to 160 % of GDP .
Portugal - where growth has been stagnant for a decade - is experiencing a slow @-@ motion fiscal train wreck that will lead to public @-@ sector insolvency .
In Ireland and Spain , transferring the banking system &apos;s huge losses to the government &apos;s balance sheet - on top of already @-@ escalating public debt - will eventually lead to sovereign insolvency .
The official approach , Plan A , has been to pretend that these economies suffer a liquidity crunch , not a solvency problem , and that the provision of bailout loans - together with fiscal austerity and structural reforms - can restore debt sustainability and market access .
This &quot; extend and pretend &quot; or &quot; lend and pray &quot; approach is bound to fail , because , unfortunately , most of the options that indebted countries have used in the past to extricate themselves from excessive debt are not feasible .
For example , the time @-@ honored solution of printing money and escaping debt via inflation is unavailable to the PIIGS , because they are trapped in the eurozone straitjacket .
The only institution that can crank up the printing press - the European Central Bank - will never resort to monetization of fiscal deficits .
Nor can we expect rapid GDP growth to save these countries .
The PIIGS &quot; debt burden is so high that robust economic performance is next to impossible .
Moreover , whatever economic growth some of these countries might eventually register is contingent on enacting politically unpopular reforms that will work only in the long run - and at the cost of even more short @-@ term pain .
To restore growth , these countries must also regain competitiveness by achieving a real depreciation of their currency , thus turning trade deficits into surpluses .
But a rising euro - pushed higher by excessively early monetary tightening by the ECB - implies more real appreciation , further undermining competitiveness .
The German solution to this conundrum - keeping wage growth below that of productivity , thereby reducing unit labor costs - took more than a decade to yield results .
If the PIIGS started that process today , the benefits would be too long in coming to restore competitiveness and growth .
The last option - deflation of wages and prices - to reduce costs , achieve a real depreciation , and restore competitiveness is associated with ever @-@ deepening recession .
The real depreciation necessary to restore external balance would drive the real value of euro debts even higher , making them even more unsustainable .
Lowering private and public consumption in order to boost private savings , and implementing fiscal austerity to reduce private and public debts , aren &apos;t options , either .
The private sector can spend less and save more , but this would entail an immediate cost known as Keynes &quot; paradox of thrift : declining economic output and rising debt as a share of GDP .
Recent studies by the IMF and others suggest that raising taxes , cutting subsidies , and reducing government spending - even inefficient spending - would stifle growth in the short term , exacerbating the underlying debt problem .
If the PIIGS can &apos;t inflate , grow , devalue , or save their way out of their problems , Plan A is either failing or is bound to fail .
The only alternative is to shift quickly to Plan B - an orderly restructuring and reduction of the debts of these countries &quot; governments , households , and banks .
This can happen in a number of ways .
One can carry out an orderly rescheduling of the PIIGS &quot; public debts without actually reducing the principal amount owed .
This means extending the maturity dates of debts and reducing the interest rate on the new debt to levels much lower than currently unsustainable market rates .
This solution limits the risk of contagion and the potential losses that financial institutions would bear if the value of debt principal were reduced .
Policymakers should also consider innovations used to help debt @-@ burdened developing countries in the 1980 &quot; s and 1990 &quot; s .
For example , bondholders could be encouraged to exchange existing bonds for GDP @-@ linked bonds , which offer payouts pegged to future economic growth .
In effect , these instruments turn creditors into shareholders in a country &apos;s economy , entitling them to a portion of its future profits while temporarily reducing its debt burden .
Reducing the face value of mortgages and providing the upside - in case home prices were to rise in the long run - to the creditor banks is another way to convert mortgage debt partly into shareholder equity .
Bank bonds could also be reduced and converted into equity , which would both avert a government takeover of banks and prevent socialization of bank losses from causing a sovereign debt crisis .
Europe cannot afford to continue throwing money at the problem and praying that growth and time will bring salvation .
No one will descend from the heavens , deus ex machina , to bail out the IMF or the EU .
The creditors and bondholders who lent the money in the first place must carry their share of the burden , for the sake of the PIIGS , the EU , and their own bottom lines .
A Long March with China
BEIJING - US Vice President Joe Biden &apos;s recent four @-@ day visit to China ended on a high note .
He assured Chinese leaders that the United States is committed to honoring all its debts , despite its recent credit downgrade ; he talked enthusiastically about US @-@ China interdependence ; and he showcased his granddaughter , who has studied Chinese for several years , as a future bridge between the two countries .
But , behind all the smiles and banquet toasts , serious issues and perception gaps continue to divide the world &apos;s two great powers .
For starters , there is always an attitude problem .
To those who view China &apos;s rise in a negative light , the country is simply becoming ever more arrogant .
It is getting tough in its territorial disputes with Japan in the East China Sea ; it is becoming assertive in the South China Sea with its neighbors , also over disputed islands ; it put its own stealth fighter on display during the US defense secretary &apos;s visit to China ; it is sending its first aircraft carrier out to sea for trials , indicating the possibility of establishing naval bases in the Indian Ocean .
Even a brawl between the Chinese and a visiting American basketball team is viewed as evidence of China &apos;s aggressive behavior .
Many Chinese , on the other hand , tend to think that the US is suffering from severe case of conceited superpower syndrome .
As these Chinese see it , the US has a rather dysfunctional government , but nevertheless insists that its political and economic system is the best in the world , and that everyone should emulate it .
It is heavily in debt , but cannot stop spending and borrowing .
It is no longer competitive in manufacturing , but blames others for its huge trade deficit .
And the world &apos;s only military superpower is often seen within China as trigger @-@ happy when intervening in other countries &quot; internal affairs .
Then , there is the issue of trust .
China &apos;s critics argue that its claims to a peaceful rise are not credible , given the country &apos;s non @-@ democratic , one @-@ party system .
Coupled with this is a zero @-@ sum view of the world , in which any Chinese gain in the share of the global economy , or any increased presence in many parts of the world , must be at the expense of the US or other powers .
Any Chinese military move is portrayed as an expansionary and aggressive act that must be contained .
Any attempts at engagement by Western politicians , such as Biden &apos;s recent trip , are automatically met with doubt and criticism for cozying up to dictators .
Likewise , for those Chinese who are suspicious of US intentions , conspiracy is always in play .
They see a declining superpower using economic , military , and diplomatic means in an unrelenting effort to prevent China &apos;s rise .
Talk of human rights and democracy is nothing but a smoke screen for demonizing China .
Arms sales to Taiwan , Tibetan activism , and &quot; color revolutions &quot; of various kinds are all sponsored by the US and other Western powers , and are aimed at weakening China .
Despite decades of close interaction , with millions of Americans , Europeans , and Japanese visiting China every year and similar numbers of Chinese now visiting the US and other advanced countries , both sides see each other through a glass darkly .
Increased interdependence has not led to better understandings on even some of the most basic issues .
China &apos;s Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs Fu Ying expressed her country &apos;s anxiety about this state of affairs in a recent interview . &quot; The most important thing is the question of whether China and the US are enemies .
Are we going to be in a war ?
Are we preparing for a war against each other ? &quot; Biden , while reaffirming that the US does not view China as an enemy , implied that Fu &apos;s worries are not fanciful , saying that the worst scenario is a misunderstanding that leads to an unintended conflict .
So the key issue for China , its neighbors , the US , and rest of the world is not how many aircraft carriers , missiles , submarines , and next @-@ generation fighters China may produce and deploy in the coming years and decades .
Rather , it is how China intends to use its newly acquired economic and military strength in pursuing its domestic and foreign @-@ policy goals - and how the world &apos;s leading powers can ensure that they do not end up harming each other by accident or misunderstanding .
To meet these challenges successfully , there is no viable alternative to a positive , continuous , and frank engagement between China and the rest of the world .
The Chinese economy will continue to grow ; the Chinese military will continue to modernize ; and the Chinese people will remain united in their Great Power aspirations .
A Cold War @-@ style confrontation and containment policy from the West will be met with strong resistance from the Chinese , whose global leverage , particularly in finance , cannot be ignored .
Only a patient , creative , and consistent engagement strategy will mitigate fears on both sides .
China &apos;s rise is a fact ; the enduring peacefulness of that rise must be a priority for China , its neighbors , the West , and , most importantly , the US .
A Looming Anti @-@ Depressants Crisis
The widespread prescription of drugs for troubled minds has always ended badly , right back to the days of opiates and cocaine , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all proved to be highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denial did doctors admit that this was so .
Now anti @-@ depressants--global brands with household names--are the problem .
The past decade has seen a three @-@ fold increase in prescriptions .
In England , prescriptions of anti @-@ depressants now match Valium at its peak in 1979 .
It is now clear that today &apos;s anti @-@ depressants are not the wonder drugs they were touted as being .
The sometimes intolerable withdrawal symptoms that can make it difficult and hazardous to stop taking anti @-@ depressants also expose many users to severe and depressing side effects : substantial weight gain , loss of libido , and mood changes , to name just the most common complaints .
Suspicions about such problems--especially about drug @-@ induced suicidal behavior and sensitization to depression--have been rumbling for years , but searching scientific investigations have only just begun .
An important inquiry set up by the United Kingdom &apos;s drug regulators in mid @-@ 2003 will soon report its findings .
They will no doubt be presented mainly as recommendations for small @-@ print changes in the warnings on drug labels and in the instructions for the drug &apos;s use .
This may help , it but won &apos;t address the real issue : how could regulators have allowed this problem to recur after so much bitter experience , and why should they now be allowed to investigate themselves ?
On the Richter scale of drug disasters , the looming anti @-@ depressant crisis appears to range between 7 and 11 , where thalidomide rates a 10 .
Time will tell , but the key point is this : the thalidomide disaster of the 1950 &apos;s and 1960 &apos;s happened because there was no independent control of drug safety , whereas the anti @-@ depressant crisis has grown under the aegis of an elaborate , expensive , and global regulatory system .
The nub of the anti @-@ depressant crisis is not that these drugs could do so much harm , but that they were allowed to do so when the precedents were so plain .
If and when this crisis is ever properly investigated , it will not so much open a can of pharmacological worms , as expose questions about what medicine is and should be .
These underlying issues seem all the more important because the Internet has for several years been groaning with evidence of the crisis to come .
The explosive growth of the Internet introduced completely new opportunities for gathering , presenting , and communicating evidence .
It broadened and deepened understanding of the problems associated with anti @-@ depressants , giving patients a collective voice , as never before .
Previously , drug safety monitoring relied on occasional adverse reports from health professionals about patients &apos; reaction to medicines .
But this crisis revealed these reports &apos; fundamental inadequacies , such that users &apos; experiences with drugs can never credibly be ignored again .
United by the Internet , many thousands of patients from all over the world began to describe experiences with anti @-@ depressant drugs and problems brought on by withdrawal that bore little resemblance to the labels &apos; warnings .
The impact of this user intelligence has been profound : in 2003 , one pharmaceutical company revised its 2002 estimate of the incidence of withdrawal reactions from 0.2 % to 25 % ( even as the manufacturer of a similar drug continues to claim that it is &quot; not habit forming &quot; at all ) .
The anti @-@ depressant crisis provides , for the first time , dramatic evidence of the collective value of user reports in understanding drug risk .
To be sure , user reports are not &quot; scientific &quot; and most , individually , might seem naïve , confused , exaggerated , mistaken , and / or just plain self @-@ absorbed .
Yet in this case they provided , collectively , more reliable evidence than that reported in numerous controlled clinical trials .
So , now the question is not so much the value of patients &apos; reports , but the integrity of medical research and the state of science .
&quot; Just how tainted has clinical medicine become , &quot; asked an editorial in the British medical journal
The crisis now unfolding raises broad issues concerning democracy and science , the relationship between risk and benefit , and the conflict between imperatives of trade and health .
But one feature above all others captures the underlying problem : the yawning gap between the words of patients who speak their minds and the terminology of producers , experts , and authorities who mince words .
The 1990 &apos;s saw &quot; depression &quot; formally redefined as a serotonin @-@ deficiency disease and the scourge of millions--a convenient and seductive view , but deeply simplistic .
The term &quot; drug dependence &quot; was also redefined , to propose that loss of personal autonomy could never arise in a therapeutic setting .
The ubiquitous term &quot; discontinuation symptoms &quot; --Orwellian
On the contrary , wishful thinking led experts to adduce &quot; discontinuation symptoms &quot; as evidence of the effectiveness of vital remedies .
Later , suicides became routinely described as &quot; non @-@ accidental overdoses , &quot; and the broad @-@ spectrum term &quot; emotional lability &quot; came into vogue , despite its inability to distinguish between a drug @-@ induced suicide attempt and an outburst of tears .
By contrast , user reports of adverse reactions attempt to describe some human reality , rather than promote images that suit the vested interests involved .
In the long run , the anti @-@ depressant crisis thus may prove to be a blessing in disguise , but only if it brings about the transparency and intellectual honesty needed to make the medical profession ultimately accountable to the people it claims to serve .
A Man against the Machine
WASHINGTON , DC ­ - America &apos;s financial sector has shown renewed strength in recent months - political strength , that is - by undermining most of the sensible proposals for banking reform that remain on the table .
If we are still making any progress at all , it is because of the noble efforts of a small number of United States senators .
Most notable has been the work of Senator Ted Kaufman , a Democrat from Delaware ( yes , a pro @-@ business state ) , who has pressed tirelessly to fix the most egregious problems in the US financial sector .
Kaufman understands that successful reform requires three ingredients : arguments that persuade , the ability to bring colleagues along , and a good deal of luck in the form of events that highlight problems at just the right time .
On two fronts , Kaufman has - against long odds - actually managed to make substantial steps .
Long before it became fashionable , Kaufman persisted with the idea that the US real estate boom was fueled in part by pervasive fraud within the mortgage @-@ securitization @-@ derivatives complex , effectively at the heart of Wall Street .
This thesis is now gaining much broader traction - major newspapers now report a broadening criminal probe by the federal government - and by New York &apos;s state attorney general - into the US financial sector &apos;s residential lending and related securities practices .
With Senators Patrick Leahy and Chuck Grassley , Kaufman worked last year to pass a bill providing timely resources to federal law enforcement agencies working on recent financial fraud .
More recently , Kaufman was devastating in his cross @-@ examination of Goldman Sachs executives .
Senator Carl Levin , chairman of the subcommittee that heard their testimony , evidently seeing eye to eye with Kaufman , was just as tough after a year @-@ long investigation of Washington Mutual , Goldman , and the abject failures of bank regulators and credit rating agencies .
Kaufman scored an even bigger coup with his warnings about the dangers of the explosive growth of high @-@ frequency trading , which is little understood by America &apos;s main financial watchdog , the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) , and poses systemic market risk .
His concerns appear to have been vindicated by the 20 @-@ minute shutdown of trading in New York on May 6 , when the stock market completely failed in its most basic function : price discovery between buyers and sellers .
We do not yet know what combination of black @-@ box computer programs and electronic trading algorithms , interacting across more than 50 market centers , caused this catastrophe .
But our lack of knowledge itself confirms how far our regulatory and surveillance capabilities have fallen behind &quot; financial innovation . &quot;
Kaufman &apos;s approach - with speeches on the Senate floor as a central feature - seemed irrelevant or even quaint to critics even a few weeks ago .
No significant Wall Street voices acknowledged his concerns - preferring instead to praise the equity markets as a shining example of well @-@ functioning technology .
Now people get it .
As Senator Mark Warner graciously acknowledged , &quot; The Senator from Delaware sounded an early warning signal that the massive amounts of investments that had been made by certain firms to try to get what appears to be a fractional millisecond advantage in the trading process might come back and haunt us all ... I &apos;ve been proud to follow his lead . &quot;
The SEC was once a great and powerful independent agency .
It fell on hard times in recent decades and is only beginning to get its act together under new leadership .
Yet it still does not routinely collect the data that it needs - trades by time and customer - to understand the actions and impact of large traders .
Kaufman has consistently pressed them to do more - and do it much faster ; to be sure , they and many others are now listening .
On a third issue , the results so far are mixed .
Kaufman championed the case for making America &apos;s biggest banks smaller , as part of comprehensive financial @-@ reform efforts .
His advocacy helped build support and forced a Senate floor vote on an amendment , co @-@ sponsored with Senator Sherrod Brown , that would have imposed a hard cap on banks &quot; size and leverage ( debt relative to assets ) .
The amendment was moderate and entirely reasonable , yet it went down to defeat , 33 @-@ 61 , also on May 6 .
It might have gained more support just a few days later - after senators witnessed the bailout of the giant eurozone banks .
Still , it has strengthened backing for another amendment , sponsored by Senators Jeff Merkley and Carl Levin , which would restrict proprietary trading by megabanks for their own account - coincidentally a practice that is presumed to be a large and &quot; dark &quot; part of high @-@ speed trading .
The deeper and overriding point of Kaufman &apos;s critique of our system is the need for tough laws .
We cannot merely rely on regulators to do the right thing .
In particular , regulators have no chance to look over the horizon and act preventively when markets are opaque , and when powerful Wall Street interests ( and their Capitol Hill allies ) can circle the wagons and claim that there is no problem .
Unfortunately , despite his newfound prominence on the national stage , Kaufman will be out of office at the end of this year - he was appointed to fill Vice President Joe Biden &apos;s seat at the end of 2008 and committed at that time not to run for re @-@ election .
When he goes , dangerous elements on Wall Street will no doubt breathe a sigh of relief .
Let &apos;s hope that by then he will have helped move the consensus permanently among his colleagues - preparing the ground for further congressional action aimed at a serious tightening of safeguards over the financial sector .
Kaufman &apos;s lasting legacy will be a simple and powerful idea that reasonable people increasingly find to be self @-@ evident : relying on deregulation and self @-@ interest in today &apos;s complex , opaque markets will manifestly fail to produce a reasonable allocation of capital or support entrepreneurship and growth .
We must write and enforce laws that restore credibility to our financial markets .
A Mania for Diagnosing Bipolar Disorder
PROVIDENCE , RI - During the past few years , many experts have suggested that bipolar disorder - a serious illness resulting in significant psychosocial morbidity and excess mortality - is under @-@ recognized , particularly in patients with major depression .
Even patients who are diagnosed with bipolar disorder often wait more than 10 years after initially seeking treatment for the correct diagnosis to be made .
The clinical implications of the failure to recognize bipolar disorder in depressed patients include the under @-@ prescription of mood @-@ stabilizing medications , and an increased risk of rapid &quot; cycling &quot; - swings between manic and depressive phases .
But , perhaps as a consequence of concerted efforts to improve the recognition of bipolar disorder , during the past few years we have observed the emergence of an opposite phenomenon - over @-@ diagnosis .
In my own practice , my colleagues and I have encountered patients who reported that they were previously diagnosed with bipolar disorder , despite lacking a history of manic or hypomanic episodes .
To be sure , we have also seen patients seeking treatment for depression who really did have bipolar disorder .
However , there seemed to be more over @-@ diagnosis than under @-@ diagnosis .
We therefore conducted a study to examine empirically how often bipolar disorder might be over- and under @-@ diagnosed .
Seven hundred psychiatric outpatients were interviewed with the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM @-@ IV ( SCID ) and completed a self @-@ administered questionnaire that asked whether they had been previously diagnosed by a health @-@ care professional with bipolar or manic @-@ depressive disorder .
Family history information was obtained from the patient regarding their immediate relatives .
Slightly more than 20 % ( 145 patients ) in our sample reported that they had been previously diagnosed as having bipolar disorder , significantly higher than the 12.9 % rate based on the SCID .
Less than half of those who reported that they had been previously diagnosed with bipolar disorder were diagnosed with bipolar disorder based on the SCID .
Patients with SCID @-@ diagnosed bipolar disorder had a significantly higher risk of bipolar disorder in their immediate family members than patients who self @-@ reported a previous diagnosis of bipolar disorder that was not confirmed by the SCID .
Patients who self @-@ reported a previous diagnosis of bipolar disorder that was not confirmed by the SCID did not have a significantly higher risk for bipolar disorder than the patients who were negative for bipolar disorder by self @-@ report and the SCID .
Our findings , validated by family history , thus suggest that bipolar disorder was over @-@ diagnosed .
Any study seeking to determine whether a psychiatric disorder is over @-@ diagnosed will find that some patients with the condition do not have it upon re @-@ interview .
Such is the nature of the imperfect reliability of psychiatric diagnosis .
The question , then , is not whether
Over @-@ diagnosis of bipolar disorder has costs .
Mood stabilizers are the treatment of choice , and , depending on the medication , they can produce potentially significant health complications affecting renal , endocrine , hepatic , immunologic , or metabolic function .
Thus , over @-@ diagnosing bipolar disorder can unnecessarily expose patients to serious side @-@ effects of medication .
The impact of marketing efforts by pharmaceutical companies and publicity probably plays a role in the emerging tendency to over @-@ diagnose bipolar disorder .
Direct @-@ to @-@ consumer advertisements that refer individuals to screening questionnaires can result in patients suggesting to their doctors that they have bipolar disorder .
We have seen evidence of this in our practice .
This does not necessarily reflect a problem with the performance of a screening questionnaire , but rather how these scales are used .
Screening questionnaires maximize sensitivity , at a cost of false positives , because it is presumed that they are followed by expert clinical evaluation .
But insufficient diagnostic rigor can result in over @-@ diagnosis .
Clinicians are inclined to diagnose disorders that they feel more comfortable treating .
We believe that the increased availability of medications that have been approved for the treatment of bipolar disorder might be influencing clinicians who are unsure whether or not a patient has bipolar disorder or borderline personality disorder to err on the side of diagnosing the disorder that is responsive to medication .
This bias is reinforced by the marketing message of pharmaceutical companies to physicians , which has emphasized research on delayed diagnosis and under @-@ recognition of bipolar disorder , possibly sensitizing clinicians accordingly .
The campaign against under @-@ recognition has probably resulted in some anxious , agitated , and / or irritable depressed patients who complain of insomnia and &quot; racing thoughts &quot; being misdiagnosed with bipolar disorder .
The results of our study are consistent with prior studies suggesting possible problems with the diagnosis of bipolar disorder . With the greater number of medications approved for the treatment of bipolar disorder , along with multiple reports cautioning clinicians against under @-@ diagnosis , it appears that over @-@ diagnosis has become a greater problem than under @-@ diagnosis .
Both can have negative consequences . While there is still some uncertainty as to the best assessment approach , we recommend that clinicians use a standardized , validated method .
A Marshall Plan for the Arab World
ROME - US President Barack Obama &apos;s major speech on the consequences of the Arab Spring is also a challenge for Europe .
Only if the trans @-@ Atlantic partnership proves effective , as it did to meet the demands of the Cold War and the end of Europe &apos;s division , can the West contribute to realizing the hopes engendered by the Arab uprisings .
The crisis in Europe &apos;s southern neighborhood reflects a deep @-@ seated transformation process that will have long @-@ lasting consequences - for the region , for Europe , and for the world .
The Mediterranean region is vital to Europe &apos;s peace , stability , and economic growth .
The continent &apos;s Mediterranean neighbors look to Europe as their natural partner .
And events there , including the Israeli @-@ Palestinian peace process , have a broader impact that naturally entails the close involvement of global partners - first and foremost the United States .
Current events , not just in Libya , but also in Tunisia , Egypt , Syria , Yemen , and Bahrain , mirror the political complexity of these countries .
They also spring from different factors , such as frustration with rising food prices and widespread corruption , coupled with demands for greater democratization , reduction of economic and social inequalities , and job creation .
Europe &apos;s response to this process must embody the goal of an orderly and rapid transition .
Proposals for some sort of &quot; partnership for transformation , &quot; based on political reform and full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms , should bear in mind that the region &apos;s political landscape looks certain to remain volatile and tense in the coming months .
No surprise , then , that regional stability has emerged as a high priority for Europeans .
Chaos , a resurgence of terrorism , the rise of radical Islamism , and massive waves of immigration towards Europe are just a few of the potential threats to the European Union that are now being contemplated .
Given this , the EU should be doing its utmost to prevent any deterioration of the region &apos;s security .
Just as the post @-@ 1945 Marshall Plan consisted of a financial @-@ aid package aimed at reconstructing and re @-@ launching Western Europe &apos;s economies to support democratic transformation and political stability , the countries of the Arab Spring face similar challenges and needs .
We need to enable countries like Egypt and Tunisia - and possibly a peaceful Libya - to strengthen their political stability through democratization .
The Marshall Plan was accompanied by partnerships for reconstruction in which the US and European recipient countries were on an equal footing .
The aim was to strengthen cooperation as a means of creating a lasting peace .
The situation in the Mediterranean region is at a more advanced stage . The broad planks of a partnership are already there , so what is now needed is to enhance Europe &apos;s integration with its southern neighbors .
This is why Italy has proposed a new EU &quot; Plan for the Mediterranean &quot; aimed at supporting the transition process and building upon existing institutional and financial tools to provide the region with additional resources .
The Union for the Mediterranean , launched by French President Nicolas Sarkozy in 2008 , must be revitalized and re @-@ directed towards development projects ranging from highways and ports to the promotion of small and medium @-@ size enterprises ( SMEs ) .
But a broader economic initiative is also needed to mobilize a critical mass of European and international financial resources to attract investment to the region and modernize its infrastructures and services .
Let us , together with the US , tear down the trade and economic barriers that are stifling these economies .
Let us also grant some Mediterranean countries association status that will allow them to integrate progressively into the EU &apos;s internal market and participate in EU programs .
To achieve all of this , a clear set of principles is required .
We Europeans must favor stability , create a real spirit of co @-@ ownership , and promote political responsibility.In this new framework , the EU should avoid excessive conditionality , especially during the transition period .
Europe &apos;s strong support for the region &apos;s economic development must remain the top priority , as Arab countries introduce necessary reforms .
Moreover , a dedicated financial institution should be set up to aid in this task .
One proposal worth considering is to upgrade and strengthen the European Investment Bank &apos;s Facility for Euro @-@ Mediterranean Investment and Partnership ( FEMIP ) , which would become an autonomous institution , perhaps headquartered in the Middle East or North Africa , with shares held by the region &apos;s governments ( or other institutions ) and other willing parties .
The London @-@ based European Bank for Reconstruction and Development could join this effort by extending its activities to the region , which could be coupled with the creation of dedicated services to support the growth of job @-@ creating enterprises .
The EBRD made an important contribution to the economic transition process in Eastern Europe ; there &apos;s a good case for drawing on its experience and expertise to help the southern Mediterranean .
At the same time , the EU must launch a &quot; dialogue among equals &quot; on political and security matters , aimed at confidence @-@ building across the region .
A Conference on Security and Cooperation in the Mediterranean and the Middle East ( CSCM ) could quickly become a useful instrument for promoting this comprehensive approach to security and development .
In short , we need to transform the Mediterranean countries into producers rather than consumers of regional stability .
We Europeans cannot afford to turn our backs on our Arab friends along the far shores of &quot; mare nostrum . &quot;
They are part of our collective history , and they deserve the better future that we can help them to build .
A Middle Eastern Union ?
TOLEDO , SPAIN - This autumn , the Toledo International Centre for Peace convened a meeting devoted to water cooperation in the Middle East .
One conclusion that emerged was that any effective response to the unequal distribution of natural resources in the region must be regional .
With this idea in mind , Munther Haddadin , a former Jordanian minister of water resources , proposed for the Middle East a &quot; Water and Energy Union , &quot; a long @-@ term mechanism to integrate a fragmented region .
The idea is compelling .
Attending to such basic needs in a way that manages scarcities and surpluses regionally has a powerful logic .
Indeed , the parallels with the role of coal and steel in forging the European Union are clear enough that , over the past month , Joschka Fischer , Germany &apos;s former foreign minister , has called for such a union .
So , too , have former Czech president Václav Havel and a group of global luminaries who support the idea of regional integration through water .
Having convened the meeting in Spain , we are very much in favor of the pursuit of such a worthy goal .
But the European &quot; coal and steel union &quot; became possible only after Europe &apos;s major political conflicts were resolved .
A successful process of regional integration in the Middle East will also require a political framework that ensures the stability needed to make regional cooperation work .
All sides need to know where their borders begin and end . And past injustices will need to be put aside , so that the cycle of revenge and the automatic reflex in favor of immediate gain do not scuttle regional solutions to problems .
Here , the experience of a previous regional exercise is worth acknowledging .
During the 1990 &quot; s , the multilateral track of the Middle East Peace Process pursued regional coordination concerning economic development , the environment , refugees , arms control , and water .
It failed , because when the bilateral talks collapsed , readiness to engage in regional cooperation withered under the despair of failed politics and the bloody reality of the Second Intifada .
The necessary political framework also needs to be regional and , fortunately , it exists .
The Arab Peace Initiative , first tabled at an Arab League Summit in Beirut in 2002 and reconfirmed in Riyadh in 2007 , provides all the parties with a framework to resolve their differences , as well as a political basis for moving forward .
Adopting it is essential to moving forward , especially if additional chapters addressing regional security and economic relations are included .
Despite today &apos;s chronic pessimism , the pursuit of a Middle East Water and Energy Union , coupled with adoption of the Arab Peace Initiative , would change mindsets .
Together , they would form a mutually reinforcing process : a political agreement would provide the framework in which the region &apos;s water and energy needs can be met ; and meeting these basic needs in an effective and innovative way would make the Arab Peace Initiative more than a paper deal .
Moreover , the arid triangle formed by Israel , Palestine , and Jordan cannot meet its water needs unless yet another dimension is incorporated into the solution .
A World Bank report has already stated that , with 19 million people living between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean by 2020 , water needs would not be met without making existing technologies of desalinization more economically viable .
Coincidentally , over the past month , there have been early signals of greater interest in a regional political approach .
The Bahraini foreign minister recently called for a regional forum that includes Israel to resolve the problems ahead ; a former senior Saudi official met with Israelis in the United Kingdom to reiterate the need for a comprehensive peace agreement ; and Israeli Labor Party leader Ehud Barak has said that it may be time to pursue an overall peace deal for the region , accompanied by an economic package , since separate negotiations with Syria and the Palestinians may prove fruitless .
Despite decades of effort , the process of trial and error through bilateral and conflict @-@ management approaches has always ended in frustration .
Whatever economic projects have been launched has crumbled in the face of the persistence of the occupation .
The problems are too complex , and the dangers of radicalism too advanced , to permit success through haphazard means .
The Middle East can end its state of permanent crisis only if it builds a comprehensive foundation for peace .
The Arab Peace Initiative , combined with the long @-@ term development of a Water and Energy Union , offers the necessary basis to meet the needs of the region &apos;s peoples and mitigate future conflict .
The Middle East must no longer be a hallmark of intractable violence .
It can be a herald of innovation on issues of common human concern - water , energy , and politics .
A Misaligned Euro ?
CAMBRIDGE : Caught by rising inflation from oil prices and a soaring dollar , the European Central Bank ( ECB ) has raised interest rates yet another notch .
More is to come .
Growth is wonderful ; inflation is terrible ; a central bank cannot avoid choosing : it must restore price stability even if that means sacrificing growth .
This is what lies ahead , unless there is sudden relief from an upturn in the euro .
But is it realistic to expect a rally from a currency that has been under siege since its birth ?
At its introduction the euro reached impressive heights , like a high @-@ tech IPO .
But the IPO soon sunk miserably .
Since its introduction , the euro has fallen further from its peak then even the Nasdaq in the high @-@ tech sell @-@ off of earlier this year .
Like the Nasdaq &apos;s high @-@ tech high @-@ flyers , the nagging questions about the euro are these : what is its fundamental value ?
Is there a fundamental misalignment of the euro with other currencies ( most notably the dollar ) and how long might this last ?
It is commonly assumed ( but nobody takes big bets ) that the Nasdaq still carries major downside risks while the euro , sooner or later , must return to normality , whatever that means .
Could the opposite happen ?
A recent study by the IMF reports on &quot; equilibrium &quot; exchange rates derived from models of long run factors in currency valuations .
The equilibrium rates are reported in the accompanying table and so are today &apos;s actual rates .
According to these IMF theoretical equilibrium rates , the euro is grossly misaligned : 30 % underpriced against the dollar , 18 % against the Yen !
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Actual IMF Equilibrium Rate
Dollar / Euro ( $ / _ ) 0.88 1.26
Yen / Euro ( - / _ ) 93.1 113.3
----------------------------------------------------------------------
In judging whether these theoretical values foreshadow a big euro realignment , lets see what causes them .
First and most importantly , these equilibrium rates are based on a theoretical model where long run current account balances tend toward zero .
Under this scenario , any country that runs persistent , large current account balances must look forward to a hard landing and a correction in the value of its currency .
No country can borrow forever or at least at very high rates .
But do current account constraints apply to major , financially stable countries ?
Canada has run current account deficits for all but three of the last 50 years ; the US has done the same for 30 years .
So long as a borrowing country is stable and attractive , a major reversal due to the current account balance will not be forced by the market .
That is America &apos;s story : despite a yawning trade deficit , investment is running high , eagerly financed by the rest of the world ; public finance is formidable and inflation insignificant ; new economy prospects run unabated and asset markets are revealing that even if there is a US bubble , it is unlikely to burst as violently as in Japan a decade ago .
In such an environment , long run equilibrium rate models are pretty useless as guides to short or even medium term exchange rate developments .
The second limitation of long run models is this : they are estimated from history and so make no allowance for dramatic changes in the supply side or financial environment .
Japan , for example , is in the grip of a growth crisis and public finance disaster - not the usual companions of an appreciating currency .
On the dollar / euro front , the US has embarked on a high productivity trend unmatched anywhere ; never mind the current account , the upswing in American productivity ( combined with financial stability ) is the dominant feature no matter the current account .
The counterpart of here , because exchange rates always ride on differential performance , is a continued poor supply side performance in Europe and Japan &apos;s ongoing and pervasive economic distress .
There is a third reason why estimates of long run equilibrium with current account balance may be of little predictive value .
Do Europe and Japan really want to see the US achieve an external balance ?
Europe and Japan , indeed the whole emerging economy world , are living off America &apos;s trade deficits .
They keep the world growing !
Were there a risk to the continued funding of these deficits by the private sector , the ECB and the Bank of Japan would step in to buy all the dollars that their private sectors had shunned .
There is precedent for this : whenever the dollar weakens , foreign central banks are eager to help .
As John Connally , President Nixon &apos;s Treasury Secretary of 30 years ago , said : &quot; the dollar is our money and their problem . &quot;
The chance of seeing exchange rates near the IMF values any time soon is slim .
Yes , the euro can tend toward dollar parity .
But it is also plausible that lack of support for the euro and the ongoing US miracle will see the euro sink to exceptionally low levels of near .80 and even less .
For the time being , investors will continue to think of the euro as a problem just as the ECB does .
The euro IPO crashed because it came at a time when the US economy was flying high .
The European product is going to make it ; it will have its day in the sun .
But right now ?
It has no chance to shine .
A More Perfect Monetary Union
WARSAW - The eurozone is often considered an experiment - a monetary union without political unification .
Those who make this claim seem to have in mind a model of a single state , which possesses two relevant features : limited fiscal sovereignty for regional and local governments and a substantial common budget from which regions hit by asymmetric shocks can receive transfers .
Those who claim that &quot; political union &quot; is necessary for the eurozone appear to focus on the second feature , despite the fact that fiscal constraints on local governments are clearly a typical and important component of single states .
In this sense , they ignore the fact that the European Union &apos;s Stability and Growth Pact has been in principle an important component of political union , not its substitute .
Indeed , the eurozone &apos;s current fiscal problems do not result from the lack of a large common budget , but from weak enforcement of the Pact .
More fundamentally , monetary unions - in a broader sense - have existed not only within single states , but also in groups of sovereign states , the gold standard being the most notable example in history .
The experience of such monetary unions offers two lessons .
First , they required fiscal discipline in the member states , which was true under the gold standard , with its informal norm of balanced budgets .
Second , they existed without any fiscal transfers from a common center , because such a center did not exist .
Instead , a great deal of flexibility , including within their labor markets , facilitated adjustment to asymmetric shocks .
It is clear that there is no scope in the foreseeable future to extend the EU budget in order to increase fiscal transfers to eurozone members affected by sharp declines in consumption .
This would require an enhanced level of European identity , something which the Union &apos;s political elites cannot generate artificially . &amp; # 160 ; But the crucial point is not that a large common budget in the eurozone is politically impossible to achieve , but rather that it would not address the main problem : the weakness of the mechanisms safeguarding fiscal discipline in the member states .
Instead of looking at the wrong model - that of a single state - the EU and its member states should focus on the conditions required for the proper functioning of a currency union that has no common budget to compensate for asymmetric shocks .
First , utmost priority should be given to strengthening the mechanisms aimed at preventing pro @-@ cyclical policies and large fiscal shocks .
This requires ensuring the credibility and transparency of the accounting rules that define budget deficits and public debt , with closer monitoring also focusing on the development of asset bubbles , which cause deep recessions - and thus sharp increases in budget deficits - when they burst .
Likewise , the European Central Bank &apos;s monetary policy should &quot; lean against the wind &quot; by paying more attention to the development of asset bubbles .
As the ECB &apos;s common monetary policy cannot fit the macroeconomic conditions of all the member countries , the eurozone countries need macro @-@ prudential regulations that aim at reducing excessive credit growth .
Meanwhile , the Stability and Growth Pact should be strictly enforced , which implies using and strengthening the available sanctions .
To be sure , initiatives at the EU and / or eurozone level cannot substitute for stronger mechanisms of discipline in the member states , which are ultimately the responsibility of national politicians and publics .
But EU @-@ wide measures aimed at ensuring discipline are necessary to spur the growth of preventive mechanisms in the member states , and such initiatives are largely dependent on the large countries , which thus bear a special responsibility for the developments within the eurozone - and within the EU .
Second , beyond strengthening economic institutions , EU countries must accelerate structural reforms to boost their long @-@ run growth prospects and facilitate their smooth adjustment to shocks .
The former are necessary to help Union members grow out of their increased public debt , while the latter would help them to address unemployment .
Of the many necessary measures in this area , the most important include a vigorous effort to complete the Single Market , coupled with avoidance of economic nationalism at all costs .
Moreover , the Lisbon Agenda should be reinvigorated , with a focus on market reforms , and the EU should urgently reconsider measures - particularly regarding climate policy and the drift toward an EU @-@ wide social policy - that risk imposing additional burdens on their economies and / or hamper the flexibility of markets .
In this respect , the mode of fiscal reforms is fundamentally important .
As EU members already have large tax burdens , further tax increases would weaken the forces of growth .
Thus , fiscal reform should focus on reducing the growth of spending commitments , which -given the aging of EU societies - must include raising the retirement age .
Finally , rigid labor markets and , more generally , regulatory constraints on prices and on the supply response of the economy , deepen recessionary reactions to various shocks , and contribute to the growth of unemployment .
Therefore , labor @-@ market liberalization should be a high priority and another area of focus for the reinvigorated Lisbon Agenda .
European elites are fond of exclamations about &quot; European solidarity , &quot; &quot; social cohesion , &quot; and the &quot; European social model . &quot;
But no amount of lofty rhetoric can substitute for the reforms outlined here - or obviate the need for them .
Hardening Brazil &apos;s Soft Power
BRASILIA - It is , perhaps , a truism for Brazil &apos;s citizens that their country is and always will be a peaceful one .
After all , Brazil has lived with its ten neighbors without conflict for almost 150 years , having settled its borders through negotiation .
It last went to war in 1942 , after direct aggression by Nazi U @-@ boats in the South Atlantic .
It has forsworn nuclear weapons , having signed a comprehensive nuclear @-@ safeguards agreement with Argentina and the International Atomic Energy Agency .
Through the Common Market of the South ( Mercosur ) and the Union of South American Nations ( Unasur ) , Brazil is helping to integrate the region politically , economically , socially , and culturally .
But is soft power enough for one of the world &apos;s major emerging countries ?
To be sure , Brazil &apos;s peaceful foreign policy has served it well .
Brazil has used its stature to advance peace and cooperation in South America and beyond .
Its constructive stance derives from a worldview that accords pride of place to the values of democracy , social justice , economic development , and environmental protection .
Brazil &apos;s unique approach to promoting these ideals is an important source of its soft power , reflected in the broad international support that placed Brazilians atop international institutions like the Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Trade Organization .
Yet no country can rely on soft power alone to defend its interests .
Indeed , in an unpredictable world , where old threats are compounded by new challenges , policymakers cannot disregard hard power .
By deterring threats to national sovereignty , military power supports peace ; and , in Brazil &apos;s case , it underpins our country &apos;s constructive role in the pursuit of global stability .
That role is more necessary than ever .
Over the past two decades , unilateral actions in disregard of the UN Security Council &apos;s primary responsibility in matters of war and peace have led to greater uncertainty and instability .
Likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made , in disregard of the Nuclear Non @-@ Proliferation Treaty .
Brazil &apos;s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity increases its stake in a security environment characterized by rising competition for access to , or control of , natural resources .
In order to meet the challenges of this complex reality , Brazil &apos;s peaceful foreign policy must be supported by a robust defense policy .
Brazil &apos;s National Defense Strategy , updated in 2012 , states that the modernization of the Armed Forces is intrinsically linked to national development .
Thus , it emphasizes the need to strengthen the domestic defense industry .
In accordance with the Strategy , Brazil is enhancing its conventional deterrence capabilities , including by building a nuclear @-@ propelled submarine as part of a naval program commensurate with its responsibilities in the South Atlantic .
Brazil coordinates closely on defense matters with its neighbors , both bilaterally and through Unasur &apos;s South American Defense Council , which aims to promote confidence @-@ building , transparency , a joint regional defense industry , and , most important , a common defense identity .
One potential mechanism for advancing these objectives is a South American Defense College , now under consideration .
South America is becoming a region where war is unthinkable - what the political scientist Karl Deutsch once called a &quot; security community . &quot;
Having visited every South American country in my tenure as Defense Minister , I am convinced that , the most effective deterrent on the continent is cooperation .
At the same time , Brazil is pursuing increased bilateral defense cooperation with African partners .
With our neighbors on both shores of the South Atlantic , Brazil is working closely to strengthen the Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic ( ZPCSA ) , which aims to keep the ocean free from rivalries foreign to it and from nuclear weapons .
Brazil is also reaching out to other emerging countries , such as its fellow BRICS ( Brazil , Russia , India , China , and South Africa ) and members of the IBSA Dialogue Forum ( India , Brazil , and South Africa ) .
For example , Brazil conducts IBSAMAR , a regular trilateral naval exercise , with South Africa and India .
More broadly , we are exploring ways to cooperate in the joint development of defense technologies .
Through such endeavors , Brazil hopes to contribute to a more balanced international order , one less subject to hegemonies of any kind , without losing sight of the importance of mutually beneficial partnerships with developed countries .
Even as Brazil hardens its soft power , it remains deeply committed to the path of dialogue , conflict prevention , and the negotiated settlement of disputes .
The presence of Brazilian peacekeepers in countries like Haiti and Lebanon underscores Brazil &apos;s contribution to maintaining peace and security worldwide .
In the twenty @-@ first century , a truly stable global order will depend on a legitimate and effective UN Security Council , one that reflects the plurality of the emerging multipolar world .
China Grows Down
HONG KONG - For more than three decades , China &apos;s GDP has grown by an average of more than 10 % annually .
But former Premier Wen Jiabao rightly described this impressive growth performance as &quot; unstable , unbalanced , uncoordinated , and unsustainable , &quot; highlighting the many economic , social , and environmental costs and challenges that have accompanied it .
Now China must choose between the export @-@ based , investment @-@ driven growth model of the past and a new , more viable economic order .
Cheap credit and perverse incentives - such as promotions for officials who contribute most to GDP growth - have led to massive but redundant investment , which , in turn , has contributed to excess capacity in manufacturing and infrastructure .
This model is not only inefficient ; channeling government resources to support investment also undermines China &apos;s social development .
Given this , China &apos;s leaders have decided to stop using GDP growth as the primary criterion for evaluating officials &quot; performance .
Indeed , the 12th Five @-@ Year Plan , which extends until 2015 , aims to shift China &apos;s economy to a new , more sustainable growth model based on quality and innovation , and accepts that annual GDP growth will likely fall to 7 % during the transition .
Most discussion of growth models nowadays is based on work by the Nobel laureate Robert Solow .
For Solow , GDP growth is determined by the factor inputs of land , labor , and capital , together with the economy &apos;s total factor productivity ( TFP , or the change in output not accounted for by changes in the volume of inputs , but by factors like technological innovation and institutional reform ) .
Since 1978 , China , by implementing major reforms , has achieved three periods of high TFP growth , each lasting 5 @-@ 7 years .
First , in the early 1980 &quot; s , following the introduction of the rural household @-@ responsibility system , which boosted agricultural productivity and released a large amount of unskilled labor to work in the higher @-@ productivity urban and industrial sectors , annual TFP growth accelerated to 3 @-@ 4 % .
The second such period followed Deng Xiaoping &apos;s southern tour in 1992 , during which he emphasized the need to shift to a market @-@ based - albeit state @-@ controlled - system by opening China &apos;s economy to foreign direct investment and establishing special economic zones to help develop export @-@ oriented industries .
This time , TFP growth soared to 5 @-@ 6 % , partly owing to the &quot; catching up &quot; process facilitated by China &apos;s adoption of foreign technology and know @-@ how .
Finally , after major reforms of state @-@ owned enterprises ( SOEs ) and the tax system , China acceded to the World Trade Organization in 2001 .
With the country fully integrated into global supply chains , TFP growth hit 4 % , where it remained until 2007 .
Since then , however , the TFP growth rate has fallen by almost half .
Indeed , China &apos;s economy has experienced a significant - and ongoing - growth slowdown in the wake of the global economic crisis that erupted five years ago .
By 2012 , human capital &apos;s contribution to China &apos;s GDP growth fell almost to zero , with fixed @-@ capital accumulation accounting for roughly 60 % of total growth .
Large @-@ scale , debt @-@ funded capital investments have raised the country &apos;s credit / GDP ratio to nearly 200 % , increasing the financial system &apos;s vulnerability - a development reflected in the recent spike in interbank interest rates .
In order to achieve more balanced and sustainable GDP growth , China &apos;s leaders must implement a set of deep , comprehensive , and long @-@ lasting institutional reforms aimed at boosting TFP .
In particular , the reforms should be designed to facilitate China &apos;s transition from its traditional supply @-@ based growth model , which assumes that building hard infrastructure leads automatically to demand growth .
In fact , GDP growth may be slowing precisely because existing investment in manufacturing and infrastructure , undertaken largely by local governments and SOEs , does not match the pattern of domestic demand .
As a result , China now faces the problem of short @-@ term excess capacity .
Improving the quality of GDP growth will depend on Chinese leaders &quot; willingness to enact market @-@ oriented reforms .
Rather than directly driving investment , the state must emphasize its regulatory and enforcement functions , including setting and overseeing standards , building an effective property @-@ rights infrastructure , and managing macroeconomic conditions .
At the same time , the state must improve the quality and delivery of education , health care , and security , while minimizing corruption and administrative abuses .
In short , China must shift its focus from meeting GDP growth targets to creating an environment that fosters innovation and competition , thereby enabling market forces to set prices and allocate resources more effectively .
The state would thus become an intermediary agent , facilitating the development of a sustainable economic order in which less is more - that is , a system in which less intervention creates more opportunities for creativity .
SOEs undoubtedly played an important role in China &apos;s previous growth model , delivering the infrastructure and services that were deemed necessary for the global manufacturing supply chain to function .
But access to cheap credit from state @-@ controlled banks creates an incentive for SOEs to generate surplus capacity , which increases systemic risk in the economy .
To correct China &apos;s excess @-@ capacity problem would require the relevant enterprises , whether SOEs or private firms , to exit the market .
Unless China &apos;s leaders implement major structural reforms aimed at establishing a market @-@ based growth model , they will be unable to avoid the &quot; middle @-@ income trap &quot; that has prevented so many developing economies from attaining advanced @-@ country status .
The deceleration in GDP growth that such reforms would cause would be more than offset by increased market dynamism and overall economic stability .
A Movable Financial Feast
LONDON - There was a time when league tables were to be found only on the sports pages of newspapers .
Now they are a global obsession .
There are school and university league tables , rankings of companies on profitability or corporate social responsibility , tables of happiness indicators by country , and tables that attempt to rank consumer brands by value .
There is even a league table of the world &apos;s funniest jokes ( I did not laugh much ) .
The financial world is also full of such rankings .
Investment bankers wait with bated breath for the merger and acquisition league tables , even though the link between a high ranking and profitability is somewhere between loose and non @-@ existent .
Bank league tables have been with us for a while , and now tend to be based on capital strength , rather than asset volume , which is an improvement of sorts , but still not very meaningful .
There are also now several different league tables - which are generating considerable angst - that rank financial centers based largely on surveys of firms .
How badly the financial crisis damaged the reputation and performance of the major Western centers is a question increasingly asked in London , and to a lesser extent in New York . ( Some Americans tend to think that the world will beat a path to their door , no matter how badly they are received when they arrive ! )
So far , the message from the most recent tables is not too alarming for the incumbents .
A ranking prepared for the City Corporation in London shows New York and London still neck and neck at the top of the league .
The Banker magazine produces another , with New York on top and London a close second - though the distance between them and their pursuers is narrowing .
The scores in both London and New York for the quality and intensity of regulation , and the tax burden , have dropped .
Firms seem nervous about the future in both areas .
The most striking change in the rankings is the rise of major Asian financial centers - and not just Hong Kong and Singapore , but also Shanghai , Beijing , and Shenzhen .
The Chinese have been explicitly promoting their financial centers , and the impact is beginning to be seen .
The World Economic Forum &apos;s Financial Development Index - yet another league table to consider - shows Hong Kong and Singapore very close indeed to London , with China now ahead of Italy on the overall measure of financial sophistication .
Noodles are beating spaghetti .
Some of this is unsurprising .
As the world &apos;s center of economic gravity shifts east , the balance of financial activity is bound to move with it .
On the principle that if something is inevitable , it is wise to welcome it , the appropriate response in London and New York is to find ways of collaborating with these new centers .
But the more important question for the traditional financial centers is whether international activity that can move really is moving .
That is far harder to judge .
There are anecdotes about individual hedge @-@ fund managers moving to Geneva .
Every time a government , or a regulator , announces some new control , or a tightening of existing controls , there are threats from bankers that they will pack up and leave town , taking their Porsches and mistresses with them .
These threats , which used to have a lot of political impact , are now much less effective .
Some politicians and commentators quickly say , &quot; Good riddance . &quot; Even the Bank of England has asked whether , given the cost of mopping up the mess caused by the latest crisis , it is worth playing host to a global financial market .
This is risky speculation .
However badly bankers have behaved - and some clearly deserve a decade or more in the sin bin - financial services are a crucial element of London &apos;s economy .
If the financial sector declines , what will replace it in employment terms ?
Airy talk about science and manufacturing as ladders out of recession ( a favorite image of former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown ) is just that - empty words .
There are few , if any , examples of high @-@ cost post @-@ industrial societies reviving their manufacturing sector on a large scale once it has declined .
London , in particular , has no inalienable right to be a global financial center .
The United Kingdom &apos;s domestic market is , after all , much smaller than that of the United States .
Indeed , the location of financial activity has changed through the centuries .
If incumbency were a permanent advantage , Goldman Sachs &quot; global headquarters would be in Babylon .
There must be a tipping point at which some combination of higher taxation , more burdensome regulation , and a hostile political climate causes financial firms to relocate .
There is a risk that Britain may now be approaching that point .
That is why the UK &apos;s Financial Services Authority , and even the Confederation of British Industry , which speaks largely for non @-@ financial firms concerned about access to credit , has begun to call for a truce between the authorities and financial markets .
The next two or three months will determine whether peace breaks out , and , if it does , whether it will endure .
As is always the case in peace negotiations , both sides must be willing to compromise .
Firms will need to show visible restraint when it comes to this year &apos;s bonus round .
The British government will not tolerate another jamboree .
And governments on both sides of the Atlantic will need to decide just how far they want to go in punishing banks .
Continued threats of ever @-@ higher tax burdens could prove dangerously counterproductive .
If we fail to settle on a new social contract between the state and the markets soon , those markets may indeed move elsewhere .
A Murder in Moscow
It is time to end the fiction that Vladimir Putin &apos;s &quot; dictatorship of law &quot; has made postcommunist Russia any less lawless .
The murder of Anna Politkovskaya , one of Russia &apos;s bravest and best journalists , a woman who dared to expose the brutal murders committed by Russian troops in Chechnya , is final proof that President Putin has delivered nothing more than a run of the mill dictatorship with the usual contempt for law .
This recognition is a timely one for the world to make , particularly Europe .
Germany &apos;s Foreign Ministry is preparing a policy on Russian / German relations that will enshrine indifference to Putin &apos;s lawlessness as being in the national interest of the most powerful member of the European Union .
But indifference becomes appeasement when it encourages Putin to pursue his lawless ways in the international arena , as in his current campaign to strangle Georgia &apos;s economy .
The killing of Politkovskaya has incited an eerie sense of déjà vu : just as in the KGB &apos;s heyday , people simply disappear in Putin &apos;s Russia .
Politkovskaya &apos;s is the third politically tinged killing in three weeks .
Enver Ziganshin , the chief engineer of BP Russia , was shot to death in Irkutsk on September 30 .
Andrei Kozlov , the deputy governor of Russia &apos;s central bank who was leading a campaign against financial fraud , was assassinated on September 14 .
The fact that Russia &apos;s Prosecutor General Yuri Chaika , took over the investigation into Politkovskaya &apos;s killing , as he did with the murder of Kozlov , doesn &apos;t inspire hope , as such senior level involvement would in any real democracy .
In fact , the involvement of the highest level of Russia &apos;s government is almost a guarantee that the killers will never be found .
Politkovskaya &apos;s murder is a particularly grim augury when you consider that she was a powerful critic of Russia &apos;s President .
In her articles for one of the few remaining independent papers in Moscow ,
I am not accusing Putin &apos;s government of the contract killing of Politkovskaya .
After all , as a campaigning investigative journalist she made many people angry besides Putin , not least of which is the current Chechen Prime Minister , Ramzan Kadyrov , whom she accused of a policy of kidnapping for ransom .
But even if Vladimir Putin &apos;s associates had nothing to do with Politkovskaya being gunned down in an elevator of her apartment building in the center of Moscow , his contempt for law created the climate in which the murder was carried out .
Like the murder of Archbishop Thomas Beckett in his Canterbury Cathedral many centuries ago , the crime was committed in the clear belief that it would please the king .
Given what Politkovskaya represented - the responsibility of a democratic press to question the Kremlin and its policies - the government should have made certain that nothing bad happened to her .
Putin &apos;s Russia has already lost 12 leading journalists to murder in the past six years .
None of those crimes has been solved , which would not be the case if Putin &apos;s &quot; dictatorship of law &quot; was anything more than a PR strategy .
The six year period since Vladimir Putin arrived in the Kremlin has been a time of deeply conflicting signals .
On one hand , the world sees a young , educated leader pledging to modernize Russia , particularly in terms of bringing its law enforcement and judicial practices into line with international norms .
On the other , the president watches in silence while his ex @-@ colleagues in Russia &apos;s FSB security service ( the former KGB ) provide no security to those murdered , and launch a series of notorious espionage cases against journalists , scientists , and environmental activists .
These &quot; neo @-@ spies &quot; include journalist Gregory Pasko , arms control expert Igor Sutyagin , diplomat Valentin Moiseyev , physicist Valentin Danilov , and others .
The supposedly civilizing influence of being a Western partner - chairing a G @-@ 8 summit in Saint Petersburg for example - seems to have been lost on Putin &apos;s Kremlin cabal .
Once again exposure to Western values has delivered another Potemkin Village ; Russia presents a façade of laws and democratic institutions , but behind that cardboard surface the same arbitrary brutes rule .
The danger for the world is that Putin &apos;s lawlessness is being exported .
Across Russia &apos;s near abroad , a form of criminalized diplomacy is taking root .
Look at Putin &apos;s attempt to rig Ukraine &apos;s previous presidential election , and the on again off again criminal charges brought against the opposition leader Yuliya Tymoshenko .
Look at the rogue breakaway regions in Moldova and Georgia that exist only because of the Kremlin &apos;s backing .
Look at how the Kremlin seeks to blackmail its neighbors by threatening their energy supplies .
Every policeman knows that when you ignore criminal behavior , criminals grow bolder .
It is past time for the world to recognize Vladimir Putin for what he is : a man who is taking Russia back into the shadows . So the world must now ponder that old Latin maxim
A Nation Kidnapped
The editorial published in the Colombian newspaper Diario del Sur on July 6 ( &quot; A Slap in the Face of Violence &quot; ) was ecstatic : &quot; Never before , in spite of the violence that has oppressed us during so many years , has Colombia lived a day like yesterday : historic and unforgettable in every aspect . &quot;
At noon on July 5 , Colombians throughout the country poured into the streets to show their outrage at the news that 11 provincial politicians had been killed while being held by leftist rebels .
A human chain was formed , with participants wearing white tops .
My colleagues in the capital , Bogotá , and in the south of the country , where we have humanitarian projects , say that everyone was waving white scarves .
White balloons were launched everywhere .
Press agencies estimate that , with more than one million participants , this was the largest public protest since October 1999 , which was also - sadly - a demonstration against violence and kidnappings .
But , while the killing of the 11 congressmen from Cali region - attributed to &quot; crossfire &quot; &quot; during an attack by an &quot; unidentified military group &quot; the leftist rebels - provoked shock and anger , there was no agreement on how to solve the chronic problem of &quot; El Secuestro &quot; ( The Kidnapping ) .
Some Colombians demand a &quot; humanitarian accord &quot; - an exchange of prisoners for hostages - and reject &quot; blood and fire &quot; rescue attempts .
Others oppose &quot; ceding the territory &quot; ( setting up a demilitarized zone , where any such exchange could take place ) and demand of the government &quot; firmeza , siempre firmeza ! &quot; ( to be &quot; firm &quot; and go after the rebels ) .
As is often the case in armed conflicts , civilians suffer the most .
The July 5 protest reminded us of the 3,000 kidnappings since the start of this four @-@ decade conflict , but Colombians could form human chains and release white balloons for many other reasons .
Consider , for example , Colombia &apos;s grim ranking as global leader in the number of victims injured by landmines .
According to &quot; Landmine Monitor 2006 , &quot; Colombia had 1,110 victims last year , followed by Cambodia with 875 and Afghanistan with 848 .
This unnoticed drama is emblematic of the under @-@ reported Colombian conflict .
Indeed , if there were such a thing as a combined index of despair , Colombia would be an undisputed leader .
Hostage @-@ taking , and killing and maiming by landmines , are but the side effects of the oldest and longest @-@ running civil war in Latin America , which has resulted in three million internally displaced persons - one of the world &apos;s highest levels , close to that of Sudan , Congo , and Iraq .
Even if there were , by some miracle , a negotiated end to the fighting , the scars left by this conflict will remain .
So , besides helping the country find a political solution , there is also a need to focus on long @-@ term reconstruction and reconciliation , so that young lives distorted by the civil war can be righted and children can be rescued from the harmful influence of so much violence and bloodshed .
In Colombia &apos;s south - where the heavy presence of illegal armed groups makes social peace a distant dream - I went to visit a secondary school , as part of a needs assessment .
After four hours on a dirt road , I reached a highlands hamlet .
The smart and friendly teenagers were eager to learn how to surf the Internet , just installed in their school .
But when I asked five of them what they would like to become , I understood that this conflict has marked them forever .
Their dream careers were : lawyer , criminal investigator , forensic physician , and soldier .
The fifth one wanted to become a chemist , so that he could set up a cocaine laboratory .
The teenagers &quot; plans simply reflect a sad reality : these pupils are the second generation that has not known anything but war .
On the day of the march against violence , next to the editorial in
It is perhaps a beginning .
A Nation of Vidiots
NEW YORK - The past half @-@ century has been the age of electronic mass media .
Television has reshaped society in every corner of the world .
Now an explosion of new media devices is joining the TV set : DVDs , computers , game boxes , smart phones , and more . A growing body of evidence suggests that this media proliferation has countless ill effects .
The United States led the world into the television age , and the implications can be seen most directly in America &apos;s long love affair with what Harlan Ellison memorably called &quot; the glass teat . &quot;
In 1950 , fewer than 8 % of American households owned a TV ; by 1960 , 90 % had one .
That level of penetration took decades longer to achieve elsewhere , and the poorest countries are still not there .
True to form , Americans became the greatest TV watchers , which is probably still true today , even though the data are somewhat sketchy and incomplete .
The best evidence suggests that Americans watch more than five hours per day of television on average - a staggering amount , given that several hours more are spent in front of other video @-@ streaming devices .
Other countries log far fewer viewing hours . In Scandinavia , for example , time spent watching TV is roughly half the US average .
The consequences for American society are profound , troubling , and a warning to the world - though it probably comes far too late to be heeded .
First , heavy TV viewing brings little pleasure .
Many surveys show that it is almost like an addiction , with a short @-@ term benefit leading to long @-@ term unhappiness and remorse . Such viewers say that they would prefer to watch less than they do .
Moreover , heavy TV viewing has contributed to social fragmentation .
Time that used to be spent together in the community is now spent alone in front of the screen .
Robert Putnam , the leading scholar of America &apos;s declining sense of community , has found that TV viewing is the central explanation of the decline of &quot; social capital , &quot; the trust that binds communities together .
Americans simply trust each other less than they did a generation ago .
Of course , many other factors are at work , but television @-@ driven social atomization should not be understated .
Certainly , heavy TV viewing is bad for one &apos;s physical and mental health .
Americans lead the world in obesity , with roughly two @-@ thirds of the US population now overweight .
Again , many factors underlie this , including a diet of cheap , unhealthy fried foods , but the sedentary time spent in front of the TV is an important influence as well .
At the same time , what happens mentally is as important as what happens physically .
Television and related media have been the greatest purveyors and conveyors of corporate and political propaganda in society .
America &apos;s TV ownership is almost entirely in private hands , and owners make much of their money through relentless advertising .
Effective advertising campaigns , appealing to unconscious urges - typically related to food , sex , and status - create cravings for products and purchases that have little real value for consumers or society .
The same , of course , has happened to politics .
American politicians are now brand names , packaged like breakfast cereal .
Anybody - and any idea - can be sold with a bright ribbon and a catchy jingle .
All roads to power in America lead through TV , and all access to TV depends on big money .
This simple logic has put American politics in the hands of the rich as never before .
Even war can be rolled out as a new product .
The Bush administration promoted the premises of the Iraq war - Saddam Hussein &apos;s non @-@ existent weapons of mass destruction -in the familiar colorful , fast @-@ paced , and graphics @-@ heavy style of television advertising .
Then the war itself began with the so @-@ called &quot; shock and awe &quot; bombing of Baghdad - a made @-@ for @-@ TV live spectacle aimed at ensuring high ratings for the US @-@ led invasion .
Many neuroscientists believe that the mental @-@ health effects of TV viewing might run even deeper than addiction , consumerism , loss of social trust , and political propaganda .
Perhaps TV is rewiring heavy viewers &quot; brains and impairing their cognitive capacities .
The American Academy of Pediatrics recently warned that TV viewing by young children is dangerous for their brain development , and called on parents to keep children under two away from the TV and similar media .
A recent survey in the US by the organization Common Sense Media reveals a paradox , but one that is perfectly understandable .
Children in poor American households today not only watch more TV than children in wealthy households , but are also more likely to have a television in their room .
When a commodity &apos;s consumption falls as income rises , economists call it an &quot; inferior &quot; good .
To be sure , the mass media can be useful as a provider of information , education , entertainment , and even political awareness .
But too much of it is confronting us with dangers that we need to avoid .
At the very least , we can minimize those dangers .
Successful approaches around the world include limits on TV advertising , especially to young children ; non @-@ commercial , publicly @-@ owned TV networks like the BBC ; and free ( but limited ) TV time for political campaigns .
Of course , the best defense is our own self @-@ control .
We can all leave the TV off more hours per day and spend that time reading , talking with each other , and rebuilding the bases of personal health and social trust .
A Neighborly Option for Iran
YEREVAN - Once again , the issue of bombing or sanctioning Iran has resurfaced .
For years , debate about Iran has oscillated between two bad alternatives .
Some are convinced that a nuclear Iran is the worst of all possible scenarios , worse even than the fall @-@ out from a pre @-@ emptive strike .
But neither a nuclear @-@ armed Iran nor air strikes against it are wise options , certainly not for this region .
The repercussions of bombing Iran should be clear : closure of the Straits of Hormuz , skyrocketing oil prices , possible retaliation against Israel ( regardless of the origin of the attack ) , and even greater turmoil in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Indeed , the only certainty of any pre @-@ emptive strike is irreparable and long @-@ lasting damage to regional security and political and economic stability .
Of course , the alternative is no safer .
A nuclear @-@ armed Iran would change the entire region &apos;s security environment , and , given the enmity between Israel and Iran , two such nuclear powers facing off against each other would pose a threat .
The way out of this dilemma is to understand what Iran wants - and how to accommodate it without jeopardizing anyone &apos;s security .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has said that Iran wants to develop uranium enrichment technology for industrial use .
Everyone agrees that Iran has the right to do so .
But the world is split over whether to believe that Iran is actually doing what it says .
If as some argue Iran is being disingenuous , then once it achieves this first phase - uranium enrichment for industrial purposes - it can easily slide into weapons @-@ grade enrichment , leaving the international community out in the cold , with no channels of communication , no observation teams in place , and no monitors ready to sound the whistle .
That is why the world must not remain focused on the already @-@ lost first phase .
Iran has more than 3,000 centrifuges despite all the international sanctions and threats .
Instead , the world must focus on the second phase , because it is weapons potential that is the looming danger , and it is here that internationally mandated mechanisms for oversight and supervision exist .
The Iranians have always said that they will continue to honor their commitments and open their doors to observation as members of the non @-@ proliferation community .
But the international community must be more respectful of Iran &apos;s current industrial aims if it wants Iranian cooperation .
The first step is to assuage Iran &apos;s feeling of being besieged .
Fortunately , there are voices in America and elsewhere that advocate engaging Iran at the highest level .
But , to talk with Iran effectively , one must understand Iranian values and thinking .
Iranians have a sense of seniority , if not superiority , born of a rich and ancient culture that has survived into modern times .
But they also have a historically ingrained sense of insecurity , owing to frequent conquest and domination , which is being aggravated today by the presence of American troops to their west in Iraq and to their east in Afghanistan .
Their outlook nowadays is the product of these two worldviews - suspicious of others &quot; motives and proud of themselves as smart , tough negotiators and not without their own resources .
In my meetings with the current and past leaders of Syria and Iran , as well as in my meeting with Saddam Hussein , I heard them all say the same thing : the West is out to get them .
Their explanation was that the West is uncomfortable with the motives and behavior of ideological states - Syria , Iran , and Iraq under Saddam were states with causes - Islam , Arab unity , or anti @-@ Zionism .
For Iranians , as bearers of faith and national pride , responses that seem to others self @-@ righteous and irrational are , in fact , necessary and acceptable .
The case of Saddam &apos;s weapons of mass destruction is a historic example of a willingness to go to hell with your head held high .
Saddam knew that he didn &apos;t have weapons of mass destruction , but he was unwilling to concede the right of inspectors to ask .
As in North Korea , Iran &apos;s neighbors might provide the right mechanism to create a more transparent relationship between Iran and the world .
In the so @-@ called &quot; six @-@ party talks , &quot; North Korea &apos;s neighbors offered tangible incentives to Kim Jong @-@ il &apos;s regime to abandon its nuclear program . The most prominent of these was an end to North Korea &apos;s economic isolation .
Iran , too , feels besieged , though it is not isolated : it depends heavily on trade , and not just as a seller of oil .
Two @-@ thirds of its population is under the age of 30 , and unemployment is high ; it needs to attract foreign investment for its oil and gas industry , and to finance road construction and other infrastructure projects .
Comparisons with neighboring Turkey are instructive .
Before Iran &apos;s Islamic revolution , it led Turkey in foreign direct investment , income per head , and GDP growth .
Now Turkey has moved ahead , and may even join the European Union .
Other regional comparisons further reinforce that trend .
The Qataris have outstripped them in exploiting the huge gas field they share .
Tiny Dubai draws in far more foreign investment : Iranians go there for banking , trade , and fun .
Iran &apos;s neighbors need to convince Iran &apos;s rulers that Iranians , too , can participate in the region &apos;s growth , and even become regional leaders .
Only an open Iran , fully integrated into the regional economy and granted a role commensurate to its size and economic potential , will be able to moderate its siege mentality .
Here , a vital step would be for the West to begin to envisage Iran as a potential alternative supplier of gas , by offering to link Iran to the proposed White Stream and Nabucco pipelines that are currently under development to bring Central Asian gas to Europe .
The world &apos;s judgments about Iran &apos;s motives and actions should not be distorted by Iranian pride .
We can only understand Iran &apos;s real intentions by engaging the Iranians - not cornering them .
A New Anti @-@ Semitism
These are violent times .
Some believe that we are experiencing a new kind of conflict : &quot; culture wars , &quot; such as those between Sunni and Shiite Muslims or tribal groups in Africa and Asia , or indeed Islamists and Westerners .
However , the deeper reasons for some of these conflicts may well be more traditional .
Belonging to a particular cultural group is merely a pretext for battles between the winners and losers of globalization .
Ruthless leaders mobilize disoriented followers .
Particularly the losers , often represented by young men with no future to look forward to , can be induced to take even suicidal action against the alleged enemy .
Perhaps one should not be surprised that at such a time , the oldest of our ugly ­ - indeed , deadly - resentments , anti @-@ Semitism , is re @-@ emerging from the shadows .
Its comeback takes the classical form of attacks on individuals , like the recent killing of a young Jew in France , or of disfiguring symbolic places , like cemeteries and synagogues .
But there is also a more general sense of hostility to all things Jewish .
One would have thought that anti @-@ Semitism died forever with the Holocaust ; but it did not .
There are those who deny that the Holocaust ever took place , or that it did in its all @-@ too @-@ well @-@ documented manner .
The deniers range from second @-@ rate historians like David Irving to apparently popular politicians like Iran &apos;s recently elected president , Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
The evidence of what Nazi Germany did is so powerful that those who deny it can probably be dealt with even without putting them in prison and thereby drawing more attention to them than they deserve .
The more worrisome source of anti @-@ Semitism is different and justifies speaking of a new anti @-@ Semitism .
It has to do with Israel .
To be sure , America is the first name in anti @-@ Western resentment . But its second name is Israel , the only successful modern country in the Middle East , which is also highly militarized , an occupying power , and ruthless in defense of its interests .
It is difficult to exaggerate the strange sentiment in the West which one might call Palestine romanticism .
Intellectuals like the late Edward Said gave voice to it , but it has many followers in the United States and Europe .
Palestine romanticism glorifies the Palestinians as the victims of Israel &apos;s rule , points to the treatment of Israeli Palestinians as at best second @-@ class citizens , and cites the many incidents of oppression in the occupied territories , including the effects of Israel &apos;s &quot; security fence . &quot;
Implicitly or explicitly , people take the side of the victims , contribute by sending money to them , declare even suicide bombers legitimate , and move ever further away from support for and defense of Israel .
Of course , it is true that in theory one can oppose Israel &apos;s policies without being anti @-@ Semitic .
After all , there are enough critics of Israel &apos;s policies among Israelis .
Yet the distinction has become more and more difficult to maintain .
Jews outside Israel feel that they have to defend - right or wrong - the country that , after all , is their ultimate hope of security .
This makes their friends hesitate to speak up for fear of being painted into not just an anti @-@ Israel , but also an anti @-@ Semitic corner .
The defensiveness of Jews and the uneasy silence of their friends mean that the stage of public debate is open for those who actually are anti @-@ Semitic , though they confine themselves to anti @-@ Israel language .
Anti @-@ Semitism is disgusting in whatever form it arises .
This is true also for other kinds of group hatred , but the Holocaust makes anti @-@ Semitism unique , because it is an emotion complicit in the near annihilation of an entire people .
The new anti @-@ Semitism , however , cannot be fought successfully by education and argument in the rest of the world alone .
It is linked to Israel .
If one belongs to a generation that regarded Israel as one of the great achievements of the twentieth century , and admired the way in which the country provided a proud home for the persecuted and downtrodden , one is particularly concerned that it may now be at risk .
A New Approach to North Korea
SEOUL - The long @-@ delayed meeting of North Korea &apos;s ruling Worker &apos;s Party is now underway , and comes at a time of severe tension between North Korea and the international community .
It is widely expected that Kim Jong @-@ il &apos;s third son , Kim Jong @-@ eun , will be appointed to a key position and be publicly announced as his father &apos;s successor .
There are also hints that a reshuffling of important positions within the Party will take place , allowing the presumed heir to form a new power base .
Whatever happens , and whoever turns out to be the new leader , North Korea most likely faces an unstable future .
The cost of maintaining internal order will continue to rise as the system &apos;s fundamental defects force the new leader to confront stark new challenges .
Moreover , responsibility for managing that potential instability extends far beyond the leadership in Pyongyang .
North Korea &apos;s fragility is suggested by the fact that even such an important political event as the Worker &apos;s Party conference , held for the first time in three decades , was abruptly postponed earlier in September .
One cause for the delay could be a schism within the ruling elite , a group that &quot; Dear Leader &quot; Kim Jong @-@ il himself cannot control as effectively as before .
Moreover , Kim &apos;s health problems might have worsened much faster than outsiders guess , further complicating matters .
&quot; Enough is enough , &quot; a mid @-@ level North Korean government official recently uttered in a private conversation with a South Korean visitor to Pyongyang regarding Kim Jong @-@ eun &apos;s likely succession .
Ordinary North Koreans , too , evidently seem to view this succession differently from that of Kim Jong @-@ il &apos;s inheritance of power from his father , Kim Il @-@ sung .
Moreover , there is no hope that any new leader , whoever it may be , will get any breathing space to establish unquestioned control , given the economy &apos;s utter state of decay , as last year &apos;s failed bid to reform the currency demonstrated .
The regime is under growing pressure from those at the bottom of North Korean society , and recognizes its own inability to handle the situation .
For example , for the first time , North Korea &apos;s prime minister publicly apologized for a policy error - the failure of the currency redenomination .
For the dynamics of the relationship between North Korea &apos;s people and its rulers seems to be changing fundamentally .
One troubling aspect of this change is that the new leader may feel the need to resort to brute force more frequently in order to suppress popular resistance .
And , at a time of domestic hardship and diplomatic isolation , North Korea &apos;s leaders , their confidence boosted by their possession of nuclear weapons , might try to distract their public through audacious , and possibly destructive , acts abroad .
The attack on the South Korean naval ship Cheonan earlier this year may be a grim sign of things to come .
Indeed , the North Korean threat nowadays derives more from the regime &apos;s internal weaknesses than from its aggressive external posture - the latter being the authorities &quot; fearful response to the former .
Unfortunately , however , most international efforts have sought to ameliorate the symptoms rather than cure the underlying disease .
Of course , in order to pressure North Korea &apos;s government to give up its nuclear option , the current international economic sanctions , which target WMD @-@ related products and luxury goods , probably should continue .
But , at the same time , the international community should place greater emphasis on policies aimed at inducing North Korea to launch serious economic reform .
At a time of increased tension between North Korea , South Korea , and the United States such a policy may seem impossible to undertake .
Yet a road map for a peaceful transition can be designed .
If , say , North Korea is willing to respect international standards of economic behavior , it could be invited to join the International Monetary Fund .
Western governments also could permit charitable foundations to provide North Korean officials or students with scholarships to study abroad and learn how to run a market economy .
Of course , any assistance to North Korea would have to be monitored closely to prevent it from being diverted for military or other political purposes .
The international community would lose nothing by trying this approach and testing the regime &apos;s will to reform .
In fact , following the recent currency fiasco , North Korean leaders may have become more open to economic reform than ever before .
Such an approach is also compatible with Chinese policy , which has been to pressure North Korea to adopt its model of economic reform .
To be sure , North Korea &apos;s regime is not the only obstacle to international engagement .
Conservatives in both the United States and South Korea may argue that North Korea must first move toward denuclearization before any kind of economic assistance is offered .
But there is no reason why international efforts to ensure North Korea &apos;s denuclearization must preclude policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform .
We need not assume that these goals cannot be pursued simultaneously .
On the contrary , it may be impossible to win North Korea &apos;s assent to denuclearization in the absence of far @-@ reaching domestic change .
The past two decades have shown that &quot; politically correct &quot; decisions do not produce the &quot; right &quot; results , even in the long run .
As North Korea grooms a new leader , the world needs to groom a new policy for North Korea .
A New Bargain for UN Reform
The United Nations is torn apart by internal tensions .
No sooner was the controversy over the creation of a Human Rights Council satisfactorily resolved than a new battle has erupted .
The United States is pressing for administrative reforms and threatening to cut off funding if the reforms are not forthcoming .
The Secretary General has submitted a reasonable reform plan , but a majority of UN member states , acting together as the so @-@ called G @-@ 77 , are balking , because they regard it as another step in reducing the authority of the General Assembly relative to the Security Council .
In particular , they object to the plan &apos;s proposal to give increased powers and responsibilities to the Secretary General , whose selection is effectively in the hands of the Security Council &apos;s five permanent members , which wield veto power .
Many UN members , believing that power within the UN has been shifting from the General Assembly , resist giving up what they regard as its last vestige : control over the budget through the work of the Assembly &apos;s Fifth Committee .
In practice , the Fifth Committee has exercised the kind of micro @-@ management over personnel and expenditure that ought to be exercised by the Secretary General if the UN is to operate effectively and to have a staff which is up to the challenges facing the organization .
This is the basis of America &apos;s insistence on administrative reforms .
There is an urgent need to find a way out of this impasse .
Failure of the current proposal would mean an effective end to all efforts to reform the UN , with disastrous consequences for people across the world who depend on the aid provided by the UN Development Program , the security provided by the UN &apos;s numerous peacekeeping operations , or the myriad other services rendered by UN agencies .
For example , failure of management reform would fuel demands by the US Congress to withhold America &apos;s contributions to the UN budget - a policy that would greatly undermine America &apos;s own interests , such as the planned expansion of the mission to stop genocide in Darfur .
The path to a satisfactory resolution is clear : give the General Assembly a greater role in the selection of the Secretary General so that members would be delegating powers to an authority of their own choosing .
This solution would not only permit the much @-@ needed administrative reforms to be implemented ; it would also bring clarity and transparency to a process that is in great need of improvement .
After all , the UN Charter provides that &quot; the Secretary @-@ General shall be appointed by the General Assembly upon the recommendation of the Security Council . &quot; The original concept was that the two bodies would reach a consensus on a candidate .
In practice , however , the five permanent members now agree on a candidate , and their decision is rubber @-@ stamped first by the Security Council and then by the General Assembly .
Real discussions about a new Secretary General are currently being conducted in secrecy among the permanent five , adding to the frustration of other UN members , including large powers that have been seeking without success to enlarge the Security Council .
To achieve the reforms of the budget process that it wants , the US will need to lead the way in persuading the other permanent members of the Council to give the General Assembly a greater role in the process .
This might be done in several ways .
The Security Council might agree to recommend several candidates from which the General Assembly would select one .
Alternatively , the General Assembly might propose several candidates to the Security Council , from which the Council would choose one to refer back to the Assembly for approval .
Either way , the selection process would benefit from greater transparency .
For example , the General Assembly should hold public hearings in which candidates are interviewed , thereby greatly enhancing the stature of the candidate who is eventually selected .
Such proposals , if accepted , would help resolve the current dispute to everyone &apos;s satisfaction .
Indeed , they could make the UN stronger than it has ever been .
A New Chance for Darfur
NEW BRUNSWICK , NEW JERSEY - As the crisis in Sudan &apos;s Darfur region worsens and negotiaitions to end it drag on , an international consensus is emerging around a &quot; muscular &quot; policy based on public denunciation , severe economic sanctions , and , increasingly , threats of military force .
But none of these steps , taken alone or together , can bring about the ends that their often well @-@ intentioned advocates seek .
On the contrary , they risk reproducing the havoc that such measures have unleashed in Iraq and elsewhere in recent years .
In the United States , cautionary voices have been notably absent even among staunchly liberal newspapers like The New York Times .
Foreign policy advisers to the Democratic Party and neo @-@ conservatives alike have called for &quot; action &quot; against Sudan - demands that have been echoed by an international group of intellectuals and celebrities ranging from Umberto Eco , Jürgen Habermas , and Harold Pinter to Bob Geldof , George Clooney , Mia Farrow , Matt Damon , Mick Jagger , and J.K. Rowling .
Meanwhile , French troops , with the support of other European Union members - notably Austria , Belgium , Ireland , Poland , Romania , and Sweden - are now deployed for putatively humanitarian reasons in the Central African Republic and Chad , where they have already clashed with Sudanese government forces .
The International Crisis Group , Human Rights Watch , and many other organizations support this deployment , while Save Darfur , despite describing itself as a non @-@ political &quot; alliance of more than 180 faith @-@ based , advocacy , and humanitarian organizations , &quot; has , in fact , been pivotal in setting the policy agenda .
This agenda &apos;s interventionism is incremental : tougher economic sanctions , demands that China exercise its influence , creation of a &quot; no @-@ fly zone , &quot; and military force against the Sudanese army .
The assumption is that only real pressure will finally force Sudan &apos;s government to embrace the United Nations @-@ African Union peacekeeping force , negotiate with the West , disband the feared Janjaweed militia , allow refugees from the country &apos;s brutal civil war to return to their villages , and make peace with Southern rebels .
But realizing these aims requires cooperation from the government in Khartoum , whereas each of the proposed measures would only heighten tensions or prove useless .
Existing Western sanctions , for example , have merely driven the Sudanese regime into the arms of China , Indonesia , and Malaysia .
Indeed , investment in Sudan has actually grown $ 2.8 billion over the last year .
Efforts to &quot; pressure &quot; the Chinese appear similarly futile .
Darfur is hardly a high priority for China , which accounts for 20 % of African trade , and buys 60 % of Sudan &apos;s oil .
Growing talk - both in Europe and America - about boycotting the Olympics ( or the opening ceremony ) has proven utterly ineffective in influencing China &apos;s behavior in Tibet .
Would the threat of a boycott really prove more successful vis @-@ à @-@ vis Darfur ?
Likewise , even proponents of a no @-@ fly zone are doubtful about its potential efficacy .
After all , Sudan is the size of Western Europe , and Darfur is the size of France , with 158 refugee camps .
Strategic constraints would almost certainly overwhelm enforcement .
Finally , there is the &quot; military option , &quot; which would merely justify fears in Sudan of Western &quot; imperialism . &quot;
Worse , given the splintering of rebel forces in the South , where an estimated 80 tribes and clans control their own militias , a military response could generate a power vacuum in Sudan and destabilize the nine countries - many of them fragile or failed states - on its borders .
Western analysts and activists should have learned by now that and military threats produce only resistance , and that genuine diplomacy involves using carrots as well as sticks .
Yet the emerging policy consensus contains no positive incentives to resolve the Darfur crisis .
Nor is it clear whether its aim is to pressure Sudan into changing its policy or to bring about wholesale regime change .
I have been to Sudan twice , and , as part of a delegation organized by Conscience International , I also visited the refugee camps in Nyala and El Fasher in Darfur .
I have met with dozens of Sudanese politicians and diplomats , and I know that the regime in Khartoum is authoritarian , self @-@ interested , and ruthless .
But it is not monolithic .
Factions within the regime might prove supportive of new policies aimed at tempering the climate of violence in Sudan , decreasing its trade dependency on China , improving conditions for refugees , and lowering international tensions .
Such policies might include :
Normalizing diplomatic relations in exchange for removing obstacles to the deployment of UN @-@ AU forces in Darfur . Replacing sanctions on Sudan with new investment opportunities and gradually forgiving its foreign debt in exchange for achievement of benchmarks tied to repatriating refugees , rebuilding villages , and demobilizing the Janjaweed ; Calling on not only the government , but also the rebel forces , over which the West has some influence , to bargain in good faith ; Engaging China &apos;s desire for international prestige by encouraging it to assume a public role in designing and overseeing repatriation , demobilization , and vocational programs ; Offering aid to the Sudanese in rebuilding the tribal reconciliation councils that were destroyed during the civil war ; Reintegrating Sudan into the international community through academic exchanges , conferences , political visits , and the like ; Strengthening the AU , which Western analysts have consistently underestimated with almost indescribable arrogance , in order to foster African solutions to African problems . The emerging policy consensus toward Sudan is predicated on an approach that has already undermined respect for Western values throughout the non @-@ Western world .
Its interventionist measures won &apos;t work .
They are unrealistic and , ultimately , counterproductive .
There is no time to lose in trying something new .
A New Dawn for Chinese Journalism ?
A remarkable incident has emboldened Chinese journalists .
Earlier this year , the government suspended publication of the newspaper Bing Dian Weekly , provoking unprecedented open protest , which received extensive media coverage worldwide .
Even more surprisingly , the government , under the pressure of public opinion , has allowed Bing Dian to resume publication .
The editor @-@ in @-@ chief and deputy editor @-@ in @-@ chief were sacked , but the open questioning of the legitimacy of the government &apos;s authority to regulate journalism is bound to have a profound impact .
Foreign observers are prone to associate the Bing Dian incident with other recent crackdowns on China &apos;s mass media , and to conclude that Chinese journalism freedom is hopeless under the present autocratic regulation .
Undeniably , there has been no significant change in the government &apos;s system of journalism &apos;s regulation since China adopted its &quot; open door &quot; policy almost 30 years ago .
On the contrary , it has become more rigorous and covert .
But I still have faith that subtle changes are occurring .
A prerequisite of effective control of the media is that the controlled accept the controller &apos;s ideology .
After 1949 , the Communist Party cultivated a stable of &quot; theoretical experts &quot; and other ideological servants to write lengthy articles propagating &quot; Marxism and Mao Zedong Thought . &quot;
But nowadays , such writers are hard to find , and their work is received by readers with mockery and sarcasm .
In fact , the Central Propaganda Department &apos;s ideological control can be maintained only through internal notices and telephone calls , which are widely scorned .
More importantly , even the regulators themselves have ceased to believe in obsolete and rigid doctrines .
I recently met an official working for a provincial Department of Propaganda and was impressed by his bold and straightforward comments on current affairs .
In private conversation , one might even take him for a liberal - one of a new breed of young and well @-@ educated propaganda officials with an increasingly higher threshold of political sensitivity .
For their part , producers of news have long since ceased to believe that news is propaganda .
I started my career with
Indeed , Western works are taught as &quot; models for writing &quot; to journalism students in China &apos;s universities .
This is a crucial change , and it is the fundamental reason for an increasing number of genuine news items and commentaries in China &apos;s media today .
Market pressure has also been important in pushing Chinese media to embrace change .
Contrary to foreign perceptions , only a handful of Chinese media - for example ,
To be sure , political information remains rigorously controlled , which puts a premium on &quot; harmless &quot; recreational , entertainment , and sports information - the reporting of which is basically free .
This has resulted , in the short run , in an embrace of low journalistic standards .
But many metropolitan newspapers that once thrived on infotainment have seen their circulation fall in recent years .
Sooner or later , readers will start to buy newspapers that can truly inform them and give voice to their opinions .
In fact , it is these tabloids , responding to market pressure , that have started to take on responsibility as public watchdogs .
On many occasions in recent years , they have been the first to break sensitive news .
As a result , mainstream media are being marginalized , and the previously marginalized media are becoming mainstream .
Thus , even without any change in the current system of regulation , extensive coverage of disasters , judicial abuses , and citizens &quot; pursuit of their statutory rights , along with the questioning of policies from public perspectives , is now common .
For example , reporting by the
Such progress is slow and full of frustrations , for it reflects the incremental evolution of the system .
But it is nonetheless real progress , indicating the growing influence of the Chinese media and pointing to China &apos;s becoming a country of &quot; free expression . &quot;
According to an old Chinese saying , &quot; a just cause enjoys abundant support , while an unjust cause finds scant support . &quot; A &quot; just cause &quot; resides in people &apos;s hearts .
Without the hearts of news producers - or , increasingly , of censors - the seemingly formidable edifice of journalistic regulation will , sooner or later , collapse like the Berlin Wall .
A New Deal for Fragile States
PARIS - Today , roughly one @-@ quarter of the world &apos;s population lives in conflict @-@ affected and fragile states .
Despite vast sums of money spent aiding such states over the last 50 years , armed conflict and violence continue to blight the lives of millions of people around the world .
International and national partners must radically change the way they engage such states .
I experienced firsthand the need for a new approach in 2004 in Sri Lanka .
Within the first two months of the devastating tsunami that struck that December , close to 50 heads of state and foreign ministers visited the island .
Each came with their own programs , their own civil @-@ society organizations , and their own television crews .
Few came with any deep understanding of the dynamics of the political conflict between militant Tamils and the Sri Lankan state .
Big mistakes were made , fueling further violence .
Our major challenge today is to move away from the model of partnership according to which priorities , policies , and funding needs are determined in donor capitals and development partners &quot; headquarters .
Conflict @-@ affected states need to be able to determine their own destinies .
We should establish models of post @-@ conflict transition like the one advocated by the g7 + , a group of eighteen fragile states .
The model is simple : Countries assess their own situation , using tools that they develop and that are appropriate to the context , in order to formulate a vision and a plan to consolidate peace and achieve prosperity .
This may sound like pie in the sky , but we have already tasted it in Africa , where Sierra Leone &apos;s Agenda for Prosperity 2013 @-@ 2017 and the Liberia Vision 2030 exemplify the potential of such programs .
Progress on meeting national priorities such as peace consolidation , expanding access to justice , or increasing security is monitored locally .
Using local systems and capacities , it turns out , can strengthen them .
The &quot; New Deal for Engagement in Fragile States , &quot; which builds on a series of international commitments regarding aid and development , and was endorsed at the at the Fourth High @-@ Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness in Busan , South Korea in 2011 , proposes just such a model .
It enshrines what matters most in building peaceful states and societies : commitments - the Peace- and State @-@ building Goals - to improve how national and international partners engage in conflict @-@ affected and fragile contexts .
The New Deal recognizes what the history of peace @-@ building teaches us : national leadership and ownership of agendas are key to achieving visible and sustainable results .
As Kosti Manibe Ngai , South Sudan &apos;s finance minister , has put it , &quot; Nothing about us without us . &quot;
In many conversations with South Sudan &apos;s president , Salva Kiir , we have discussed setting out a short list of clear priorities for the new state .
But such goals are meaningful only if a fragile state &apos;s partners are ready to accept the lead from a capital like Juba rather than from their own headquarters .
More than 40 countries and institutions have endorsed the New Deal way of working , committing themselves to building better partnerships - and to investing the required resources and political capital .
This is why the New Deal model is innovative ; it creates political support around issues that need to be addressed if countries are to make the transition from conflict and fragility to peace and stability .
Supporting inclusive political dialogue and ensuring that conflict is resolved through peaceful means are the highest priorities , as are security , access to justice , and a dynamic private sector that generates sufficient job opportunities .
Moreover , many fragile states are rich in natural resources , and must establish transparent resource management - aimed at curbing corruption and controlling illicit flows of money and goods - in order to raise the revenues needed to deliver services .
A focus on these processes would ensure that fragile states take the lead and the responsibility .
As partners , we must accept this national leadership .
After Haiti &apos;s catastrophic earthquake in 2010 , the country was dubbed &quot; the republic of NGOs . &quot;
Unable to create conditions in which Haitians themselves could take the lead in rebuilding their country , Haiti &apos;s external partners undermined the establishment of a functioning internal governance system .
So , how can we translate our commitments and priorities into better lives for people who are affected by conflict and fragility ?
OECD countries need to lead by example and meet the commitments that they have made .
Our partners , through groupings like the g7 + , must continue to demand the changes in policies and practices that have been promised .
We also must plan to change for the long term .
As the Millennium Development Goals &quot; 2015 end date approaches , promotion of peace , security , and non @-@ violent conflict resolution continues to be vitally important , and must be fully integrated into any future development agenda .
Recently , the members of the International Dialogue on Peacebuilding and Statebuilding , the high @-@ level political forum that produced the New Deal , met in Washington , DC , to assess our progress in changing how we work and in implementing the New Deal commitments .
They agreed to the Washington Communiqué , which urges development partners , g7 + countries , and civil @-@ society organizations to intensify their efforts to use the New Deal to deliver concrete results on the ground , and calls for a post @-@ 2015 development agenda that recognizes the universal importance of peace- and state @-@ building .
Ultimately , our progress depends on the resolve of everyone to transform the lives of the 1.5 billion people whose lives are marred by violence , conflict , and insecurity .
A New Deal for Poor Farmers
NEW YORK - Many poor , food @-@ importing countries around the world have become desperate in recent months , as global prices of rice , wheat , and maize have doubled .
Hundreds of millions of poor people , who already spend a large share of their daily budget on food , are being pushed to the edge .
Food riots are mounting .
But many poor countries can grow more food themselves , because their farmers are producing far below what is technologically possible .
In some cases , with appropriate government action , they could double or even triple food production in just a few years .
The idea is basic and well known .
Traditional farming uses few inputs and gets poor yields .
Poor peasants use their own seeds from the preceding season , lack fertilizer , depend on rain rather than irrigation , and have little if any mechanization beyond a traditional hoe .
Their farms are small , perhaps one hectare ( 2.5 acres ) or less .
Under traditional agricultural conditions , the yields of grain - rice , wheat , maize , sorghum , or millet - are usually around one ton per hectare , for one planting season per year .
For a farm family of five or six living on one hectare , this means extreme poverty , and for their country , it means reliance on expensive food imports , including food aid .
The solution is to increase grain yields to at least two tons - and in some places to three or more tons - per hectare .
If water can be managed through irrigation , this could be combined with multi @-@ cropping ( multiple harvests per year ) to produce a crop during the dry season .
Higher and more frequent yields mean less poverty in farm families , and lower food prices for cities .
The key to increasing yields is to ensure that even the poorest farmers have access to improved seed varieties ( usually &quot; hybrid &quot; seeds created by scientific selection of seed varieties ) , chemical fertilizers , organic matter to replenish soil nutrients , and , where possible , small @-@ scale irrigation methods , such as a pump to lift water from a nearby well .
There is nothing magic about this combination of high @-@ yield seeds , fertilizer , and small @-@ scale irrigation .
It is the key to the worldwide increase in food production since the 1960 &quot; s .
The problem is that these improved inputs have bypassed the poorest farmers and the poorest countries .
When peasants lack their own saving accounts and collateral , they are unable to borrow from banks to buy seeds , fertilizer , and irrigation .
As a result , they grow food the traditional way , often earning little or nothing from their harvest , because it &apos;s not even enough to keep their families alive .
History has shown that government action is required to help the poorest farmers escape the low @-@ yield poverty trap .
If farmers can be helped to obtain simple technologies , income can rise , and they can accumulate bank balances and collateral .
With a bit of temporary help , perhaps lasting around five years , farmers can build up enough wealth to obtain inputs on a market basis , either through direct purchases from savings or through bank loans .
Around the world , government @-@ run agricultural banks in poor countries once not only financed inputs , but also provided agricultural advice and spread new seed technologies .
Of course , there were abuses , such as the allocation of public credits to richer farmers rather than to needy ones , or the prolonged subsidization of inputs even after farmers became creditworthy .
And in many cases , government agricultural banks went bankrupt .
Still , the financing of inputs played a huge and positive role in helping the poorest farmers to escape poverty and dependency on food aid .
During the debt crisis of the 1980 &quot; s and 1990 &quot; s , the International Monetary Fund and World Bank forced dozens of poor food @-@ importing countries to dismantle these state systems .
Poor farmers were told to fend for themselves , to let &quot; market forces &quot; provide for inputs .
This was a profound mistake : there were no such market forces .
Poor farmers lost access to fertilizers and improved seed varieties . They could not obtain bank financing .
To its credit , the World Bank recognized this mistake in a scathing internal evaluation of its long @-@ standing agricultural policies last year .
The time has come to reestablish public financing systems that enable small farmers in the poorest countries , notably those farming on two hectares or less , to gain access to needed inputs of high @-@ yield seeds , fertilizer , and small @-@ scale irrigation .
Malawi has done this for the past three seasons , and has doubled its food production as a result .
Other low @-@ income countries should follow suit .
Importantly , the World Bank , under its new president , Robert Zoellick , has now stepped forward to help finance this new approach .
If the Bank provides grants to poor countries to help small peasant farmers gain access to improved inputs , then it will be possible for those countries to increase their food production in a short period of time .
Donor governments , including the oil @-@ rich countries of the Middle East , should help finance the World Bank &apos;s new efforts .
The world should set as a practical goal of doubling grain yields in low @-@ income Africa and similar regions ( such as Haiti ) during the next five years .
That &apos;s achievable if the World Bank , donor governments , and poor countries direct their attention to the urgent needs of the world &apos;s poorest farmers .
A New Deal for the Lisbon Strategy
Whatever happened to the European Union &apos;s Lisbon Strategy ?
Not only is the public almost entirely ignorant of the EU &apos;s policy agenda for boosting competitiveness , economic growth , and employment , but this ignorance extends to many intellectuals , academics , CEO &apos;s , and even some MP &apos;s .
For example , in all of the debates on the EU &apos;s constitutional treaty , neither its supporters nor its opponents have so much as mentioned the Lisbon Strategy .
It is little wonder , then , that Euroskepticism - in France , the Netherlands , and elsewhere - is on the rise .
Despite the success and popularity of programs like ERASMUS , citizens don &apos;t perceive the EU &apos;s contribution to superior education or training .
Indeed , the last Eurobarometer survey on the Lisbon Strategy found that the European public sees little relation between EU policies and economic competitiveness .
Of course , some laboratories receive EU grants , but without recognizing a specific European mission in research policies .
Europe is generally considered more a constraint than as a plan , more as an instrument than a vision nourished by a clear and credible idea .
The essential responsibility for this state of affairs lies with Europe &apos;s ruling class and policymakers .
As a recent assessment by former Dutch prime minister Wim Kok pointed out , the EU &apos;s member states generally have not made the Lisbon Strategy a high priority , and they balk at giving the EU the means to pursue more ambitious policies to offset this neglect .
It is difficult to ask citizens to be enthusiastic about aims that their leaders ignore .
At bottom , the problem is one of legitimacy .
The main targets - jobs , growth , and research - are considered legitimate from the standpoint of fairness when described in general terms .
But the concrete policies needed to realize this aim are not , since reforming the welfare state and labor markets means more competition , which scares many citizens .
Legitimacy is even more problematic regarding recognition , which implies a feeling of community and attachment .
When we are faced with conflicting choices - burden @-@ sharing through taxation , the organization of the public sector , the status of public employees , etc . - the member states are considered to be the only bodies entitled to decide .
In short , when the EU brings subsidies , it receives congratulations ; but when it pushes for unpopular reforms , it becomes the scapegoat for political , social , and economic failures .
From an economic point of view , the Lisbon Strategy &apos;s aim is to transform Europe into a power able to compete on equal terms with the US today and the great Asian countries .
But this aim does not appear to be creating a European identity , as the euro has .
Within many states , &quot; power &quot; isn &apos;t politically correct .
Above all , there is no linkage between national power and European power .
If we want Europe to be more legitimate , we must explain how to tie these two dimensions of power .
Aside from ignorance of the Lisbon Strategy among the public and inaction on long @-@ term reforms among the member states , a second problem concerns the lack of acceptance of the virtues of competition - the most effective way to ensure quality , innovation , and low prices for consumers .
Competition also puts an end to rent seeking and protection of traditional corporate advantages .
Of course , we must limit the scope of competition : there is no reason , for example , to extend it to taxation .
Similarly , while competition will improve the quality of research and education , this does not imply reduced public funding , a lower priority for basic research , or the elimination of scholarships .
Perhaps most importantly , competition is a powerful means to restore democracy and modernize political institutions by compelling policymakers to ensure transparency and accountability .
Elites must give up their privileges , and regulations on corporate governance must limit collusion between managers and civil servants or politicians .
We must explain to citizens Europe &apos;s contribution to public ethics , and the democratic virtues of fair competition in economic , political , and social life .
Consider one of the main purposes of the Lisbon Strategy : the organization of research and higher education .
It is impossible to change radically the way scholars and research workers are appointed in most member states , and to revise completely the criteria for funding of faculties and laboratories .
But the EU can overcome national impediments by developing exemplary universities and research centers that would be properly European , serving as an incentive to quality and reform at the national level .
Emulation through excellence is the motor of competitiveness .
A good place to start is an idea supported by French Socialist leader Dominique Strauss @-@ Kahn , who has proposed that 0.25 % of Europe &apos;s GDP be dedicated to research and used to create a European Agency for Research .
Moreover , Europe must build up tools for strategic analysis , assessment , and forecasting to provoke and nourish public debate .
Such think tanks at the European level must remain free and independent , but leaders must learn to pay attention to and integrate their recommendations into the policy @-@ making process .
In many matters pertaining to the Lisbon Strategy , the EU cannot avoid member states &quot; concerns .
But as the states won &apos;t be able to do everything alone and won &apos;t renounce maintaining political control , we must be able to link the Union &apos;s policies and those of specific states .
Otherwise , the Lisbon Strategy could merely empower an inefficient bureaucracy , rather than boosting the EU &apos;s democratic legitimacy .
In short , the Lisbon Strategy could lead Europe to become a real power in the coming decades , or it could fuel further growth of Euroskepticism .
A New Deal for the New World
As former members of our countries &apos; congresses we believe that it is time to create a North American Parliamentary Union ( NAPU ) to address the growing number of big issues that North America &apos;s national governments have pushed to the sidelines .
Both past and present have been burdened by the ad hoc nature of relations among the United States , Mexico , and Canada .
A fairer , more prosperous future for all three countries demands that we take a bold step forward .
Despite US Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld &apos;s snide reference to &quot; Old Europe , &quot; North Americans can learn much from the European Union and European Parliament .
In the 1950 &apos;s , most of Europe considered the idea of a Union with a single Parliament a pipe dream .
Today the EU elects its Parliament , shares a single currency , and controls a budget that emphasizes raising living standards within the less developed member countries .
Within the near future , the EU is likely to be 450 million people strong .
The combined population of the US , Mexico , and Canada is about 410 million people .
Yet North America has failed to match Europe in building the political structures necessary to focus the hemisphere on the problems of immigration , cross border security , labor rights , and environmental degradation ; or in facilitating a more united approach to strong economic competition from Europe and Asia .
On the contrary , in the aftermath of the Iraq War , relations between the US and its neighbors , Canada and Mexico , are at their lowest level in years .
Clearly , efforts to deepen North American political and economic integration will be an uphill battle .
In the near future , the US government will be focused on homeland security , Iraq , the slumping domestic economy , and the run @-@ up to the 2004 presidential election .
Canada &apos;s government has been more willing to approach North American issues on a bilateral basis than in a tri @-@ national context ; furthermore , Canadians are preoccupied with the consequences and aftermath of SARS and mad cow disease , as well as anticipating a new government next year .
Mexico &apos;s President Vincente Fox will govern through 2006 .
But his vision of a North American Free Trade Association ( NAFTA ) encompassing elements of social and political fusion with his North American counterparts was sidetracked by the terrorist attacks of September 11 , 2001 , and by his political rivals &apos; recent successes at the polls .
Notwithstanding this , most Canadians and Mexicans believe that cooperation in North America will proceed regardless of who is in office in Ottawa , Washington , or Mexico City .
Not only are Canada and Mexico the US &apos;s first and second largest trading partners , but the three countries maintain a myriad of relationships--in business , tourism , and culture--that do not pass through their embassies or governments .
Good feelings abound .
US citizens register high approval ratings in Canada and Mexico : 90 % and 70 % , respectively .
In proposing the creation of NAPU , we envision a specific plan to create a larger market by fostering an alliance between the three economies .
In just a single decade , the EU managed to bring poorer , peripheral member states--Greece , Portugal , Spain , and Ireland--from 50 % to 90 % of the EU average in per capita income , creating a bigger market for companies from wealthier northern countries , and stemming migration from poorer southern economies .
The EU invested upwards of $ 35 billion a year to assure the success of their Common Market integration .
North America has largely ignored the significance of &quot; common , &quot; preferring to focus on &quot; market . &quot;
This blinded all three countries to the centrality of community .
We have failed to understand that a North American Free Trade Area ( NAFTA ) that achieves its full potential cannot be accomplished on the cheap .
A regional political structure will maintain the focus on vital but difficult issues such as immigration .
NAFTA was conceived under the assumption that expanded trade would trickle down benefits to all in the three countries .
Regretfully , this corporate @-@ driven NAFTA exacerbated the disparities and asymmetries between Mexico and its two richer northern neighbors .
Moreover , throughout NAFTA &apos;s lifetime income and wealth have been further concentrated within the elite sectors of US and Canadian society .
Immigration illustrates the cost of integration without convergence . Demand for low @-@ cost Mexican labor by US employers and the 10 @-@ 1 wage gap between the two countries pushes 350,000 Mexicans to risk their lives every year for better paid jobs north of the border .
Without Mexican manpower , much of the work in the US simply would not get done . The issue must be addressed , not ignored and criminalized .
NAPU would be the ideal forum in which to address this concern .
Everywhere nowadays , key decisions are made by a self @-@ selected group of elites , often in non @-@ transparent circumstances .
NAPU would allow for wider , more consistent participation in the consideration of issues now ignored in all three countries .
Inter @-@ American issues can no longer be left subject to the whims and convenience of individual leaders .
The people of the US , Canada , and Mexico deserve better .
A New Democratic Agenda for Russia
MOSCOW - When Russian President Dmitri Medvedev delivered his annual address to the Federal Assembly I was struck by the fact that his speech seemed to be meant for an advanced , prosperous country , not the real Russia of today .
Russia will hold a presidential election in 2012 .
What happens in 2011 will , in my opinion , be even more important than the election itself .
Indeed , the evolution of Russian society could transform Russian politics , despite those domestic opponents who deny change or those who unqualifiedly classify Russia as &quot; incorrigibly authoritarian . &quot;
But , in order for that to happen , a new agenda for Russia must be developed this year .
A decade ago , defense of Russia &apos;s territorial integrity and restoration of governability topped the list of priorities .
People supported a president , Vladimir Putin , who was devoted to this &quot; stabilization &quot; agenda .
We may debate the means by which it was pursued , and how successfully , but Russia &apos;s &quot; existential &quot; challenges were largely overcome .
But progress on stabilization only highlighted Russia &apos;s unresolved problems , which the global financial crisis exacerbated , but did not cause .
After all , Russia &apos;s resource @-@ based , de @-@ industrializing , expenditure @-@ driven economy is the result of purely domestic choices .
Nor was it the crisis that gave rise to corruption , which affects officialdom at all levels , or that caused Russia to lose its democratic dynamic .
We Russians rode along on oil and gas , forgetting that these resources will not last forever .
But , even with favorable world market conditions , we did not manage to solve the problem of poverty , in which millions of Russians still live .
I am convinced that Russia &apos;s troubles all come down to politics .
We need a democratic , competitive environment , initiative at all levels , an active civil society , and real public control .
Only under such conditions will difficult problems lend themselves to solution .
But , starting in 2005 @-@ 2006 , the authorities implemented measures that made responsiveness to acute problems practically impossible .
The decisions to appoint , rather than elect , regional governors , to introduce party @-@ list voting , to raise the electoral threshold for parties to enter the Duma , and to repeal the minimum @-@ turnout requirement - all accompanied by rampant manipulation of elections and the mass media - created a political system closed to feedback from society .
Not surprisingly , the political elite became self @-@ absorbed and served only its own narrow interests .
This summer , with wildfires raging outside Moscow , the elite &apos;s isolation took on a menacing nature .
But something else happened : society became more demanding , recognizing its own interests and knowing how to express them .
Although the traditions of self @-@ organization in Russian society are neither deep nor strong , real movement in this direction became visible for all to see .
Activists from public movements , journalists , ecologists , businessmen , and ordinary people who had suffered the tyranny and corruption of public officials began to join in .
The authorities have recognized this , at least to some degree .
Medvedev &apos;s decision to suspend construction of a highway through the Khimki forest near Moscow in the face of widespread civic protest was important .
For many months , Moscow and federal authorities ignored the highway &apos;s opponents , so Medvedev &apos;s decision was a signal : contempt for the people is inadmissible .
Yet right after that , the bureaucracy tried to turn the public hearings - called to give people and civil institutions a voice in solving such problems - into an empty formality .
So the struggle between democratic and anti @-@ democratic tendencies is becoming acute .
If the anti @-@ democratic tendencies win out , all that we have accomplished in previous years will be jeopardized - including stability itself .
This threat evidently motivated Medvedev to speak out in November : &quot; It is no secret , &quot; Medvedev wrote in his blog , &quot; that , as of a certain period , symptoms of stagnation have begun to appear in our political life , and the threat of turning stability into a factor of stagnation has appeared . &quot;
The president &apos;s statement was unexpected .
Medvedev &apos;s assessment attested to his understanding that Russia &apos;s problems are rooted in its politics - in the degradation of the ruling party , in the absence of a real opposition , and in the lack of respect for the rights of political minorities .
I welcome Medvedev &apos;s emphasis on social concerns and his anti @-@ bureaucratic rhetoric .
But his statements are only a first step toward formulating a new Russian agenda , the first point of which must be a renewal and acceleration of movement toward real and effective democracy .
It is vital that Russians believe that Medvedev &apos;s words reflect his priorities , and that he is prepared to fight for them .
Among these priorities , one of the most important is education .
We have approached the point when the constitutional requirement of universal , free education may become a fiction .
People are asking : How is it that , after World War II , the state had enough money to provide free education , whereas today &apos;s Russian state does not ?
Society also demands effective mechanisms for combating corruption , which is turning into a serious political problem , precisely because it has widened the gap between the people and the authorities .
Indeed , today &apos;s elite cannot or will not solve the problem .
Only a serious presidential initiative , supported by civil society and brave new political forces , can do the job .
The new agenda must also include a strong economic component .
Patching up holes in the budget and individual initiatives are not enough to ensure economic renewal .
Russia needs a breakthrough toward an up @-@ to @-@ date , knowledge @-@ based , and ecologically sustainable economy .
Here , I see a direct connection with the problem of education .
I am convinced that Medvedev must become the leader in the process of formulating the new Russian agenda , and he must act in the coming year .
Society will support him .
A New Era for Islamic Science ?
For a few hundred years , when science and mathematics were enjoying a period of great invention , one region of the world stood out .
Masters of these disciplines were revered there , medicine advanced quickly , and the average person was curious about how nature worked .
Not surprisingly , this region was globally respected .
In the other half of the known planet , scientists were punished , even killed .
Mathematics was outlawed as irreligious and alien , and was later made subservient to religion .
The standard of living was low .
The prosperous region was the Islamic Middle East , while an ignorant Europe remained poor .
Both regions were religiously governed ( historians differ about the role and natures of the religions in this context ) , but science flourished only in one of them .
Now , of course the roles of the Islamic Middle East and the West are reversed .
Since World War II , the United States has been the world &apos;s undisputed leader in science .
Throughout this period , the brightest students were drawn away from their native lands , attracted by superior research universities and opportunities .
Until recently , more than half of all mathematics , science , and engineering graduate students in the US were foreign @-@ born .
Many of these talents stayed after graduation , and both industry and government took advantage of this .
Meanwhile , Islamic cultures entered a historical phase in which science was equated with Western influence and eschewed .
Even in countries where oil revenues could fuel a significant amount of research , Arab rulers did not encourage such investment , with the result that their societies have not prospered as much as they might have .
Recently , a desire for greater political respect has spurred Islamic nations to invest in technology , which is most visible in Pakistani and Iranian nuclear ambitions .
But while such weapons carry political weight , the science behind them is mundane and old .
More meaningful is the respect that comes from incubating insights , rather than the products of past discoveries .
Imagine the influence that would be generated by a Pakistani institute that was the world leader in cancer research .
Would the political rhetoric shift if researchers in Oman discovered a key to suppressing AIDS ?
This is one unclaimed opportunity .
But another exists , and not just for Islamic societies .
The US has made profound missteps recently .
&quot; Matters of faith &quot; have been substituted for science across government , from the president down .
Top researchers have had their reports changed by political operatives when the facts contradicted official belief .
Encouraged by a religiously influenced administration , school systems are shifting their focus from science to &quot; values . &quot;
Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001 , entry visas are fewer and more difficult to obtain , stanching the flow of young talent into US universities .
Major scientific organizations have protested , without result .
At the same time , tax laws have been revised to make investors wealthier in the near term , discouraging long @-@ term investment in research .
Half a trillion dollars was committed to the war in Iraq , an amount roughly equal to the sponsorship of all basic research for the last thousand years .
Even if the US avoids a fundamentalist dark age , it clearly risks losing its global research dominance .
Japan recognized the link between political clout and science in the 1980 &quot; s .
Japan &apos;s chief industrialist , Akio Morita , the chairman of Sony , and the right @-@ wing politician Shintaro Ishihara gave a series of speeches that were collected and published in 1986 as a book called
Building a knowledge @-@ based economy using oil wealth is clearly possible .
For example , Texas , like most southern US states , was once economically poor and declining .
Although it had oil revenue , the flow of dollars into an economy , by itself , does not boost prosperity as much as one might think .
So Texas decided to devote its oil money to an educational endowment .
Today , that endowment is roughly equal to that of Harvard University and spread over 15 universities .
The effect has been staggering : aerospace manufacturing has almost disappeared from California , but is booming in Texas .
Telecom research centers and consortia have flocked to Texas , even from the Canadian telecommunications giant Nortel .
Although manufacturing in the US is in crisis , Texas has one of the strongest manufacturing economies in the world .
There is no reason that the same outcome could not be achieved in the Middle East .
First , however , the Islamic world must rediscover and embrace its proud heritage .
­ A New European Growth Agenda
BRUSSELS - Austerity alone cannot solve Europe &apos;s economic and financial crisis .
Growth and jobs need to be promoted with equal zeal .
European Union leaders now recognize this : kick @-@ starting growth in 2012 was high on the agenda at the European Council &apos;s meeting on January 30 .
But the big question remains : How ?
The need for immediate action is clear .
The eurozone &apos;s economy contracted in the last three months of 2011 ; even Germany &apos;s shrank .
The new year is looking grim .
France is flat @-@ lining ( as is Britain ) .
Italy and Spain have sunk into deep recession .
Greece is in its fifth year of a slump .
And eurozone unemployment is at record highs , with nearly one in two young people jobless in Spain and Greece .
The economic headwinds are formidable : fiscal austerity , high interest rates outside AAA @-@ rated countries , credit cutting by banks , deleveraging households , weak private @-@ sector investment , and declining exports as the global slowdown undermines demand .
Until growth resumes , any tentative financial stabilization will be extremely fragile .
Recession will hit banks &quot; and governments &quot; already @-@ weak balance sheets , increasing pressure for faster deleveraging .
But , while gradual adjustment is essential , faster and deeper cuts are largely self @-@ defeating : big reductions in private credit and government spending will cause a sharper slowdown - and thus a vicious downward spiral .
A big new push for growth is therefore vital .
So far , the growth agenda has consisted largely of structural reforms , which are essential for boosting future productivity and flexibility .
The crisis does provide a political opportunity for bold moves on this front in many countries ; but structural reforms generally will not generate growth and jobs immediately ( one exception is permitting shops to open longer ) .
On the contrary , a shakeout of less productive jobs , for example , would at first raise unemployment , increase government outlays , and reduce private spending .
And , because demand is depressed , credit is in short supply , and barriers to enterprise are often high , it will take longer than usual for businesses to create more productive jobs .
In short , structural reforms alone cannot be relied upon to stimulate growth in 2012 .
Instead , the immediate focus needs to be on boosting investment and exports in economies with a current @-@ account deficit - such as France , Italy , and Spain ( and the United Kingdom ) - and stimulating consumption in surplus countries such as Germany and the Netherlands .
The European Central Bank has acted decisively to prop up European banks ; now it needs to support the real economy , too .
While official interest rates are only 1 % , solvent sovereigns such as Spain pay more than 5 % to borrow for ten years , while creditworthy businesses in Italy can borrow only at punitive rates , if at all .
So the ECB should do more to unblock the transmission mechanism for monetary policy ; the European Banking Authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital amounts rather than hit a uniform 9 % ratio ; and , where necessary , national governments should provide guarantees for bank lending to small and medium @-@ size businesses .
While improving access to finance is vital , governments also need to do more to boost investment .
They should prioritize measures to make it easier to start a business , lift barriers to venture capital , and introduce temporary 100 % capital allowances to encourage businesses to bring forward investment .
At the EU level , the ( callable ) capital of the European Investment Bank should be greatly increased , as European Commission President José Manuel Barroso suggested in his State of the Union speech last September , so that the EIB can finance a big wave of pan @-@ European investment , notably in infrastructure .
Boosting exports is also essential .
Deficit countries need to become more competitive , increasing productivity while cutting costs .
A more competitive currency would be welcome : just as the sterling &apos;s collapse since 2008 has lifted UK exports , a weaker euro would help Mediterranean economies regain competitiveness for price @-@ sensitive exports .
A fiscal devaluation - slashing payroll taxes and replacing the revenues with a higher VAT - would also help .
Surplus countries , too , must do their part , which is in their own interest .
Just as China needs to allow the renminbi to rise , so Germany - whose current @-@ account surplus exceeds China &apos;s both as a share of GDP and in absolute terms - needs a higher real exchange rate .
That means that Germans need to earn higher wages , commensurate with their increased productivity , so that they can afford more Greek and Spanish holidays .
If businesses will not oblige , an income @-@ tax cut would do the trick .
That brings us to fiscal policy .
Governments that cannot borrow cheaply ( or at all ) from markets have no option but to tighten their belts .
But they should pursue smart consolidation rather than unthinking austerity .
So they should maintain investment in skills and infrastructure , while cutting subsidies and transfer payments .
They should also legislate now for future reforms , notably to encourage people to work longer .
Last but not least , governments that can borrow at unprecedentedly low rates - 0 % in real terms over 10 years in the case of Germany - must play their role in supporting demand .
Would it be really be so difficult to see VAT coming down ahead of the German election next year ?
A New Holy Alliance ?
LONDON &amp; # 45 ; &amp; # 45 ; The recent meeting in the Vatican of the &quot; Custodian of The Holy Places , &quot; King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia , and Pope Benedict XVI was a seminal event , particularly as it comes at a time when radical Muslims are decrying the role of &quot; crusaders &quot; in Middle East politics .
It was also the clearest sign yet of a rising &quot; Holy Alliance &quot; among the world &apos;s conservative leaders .
For the key audience for this meeting of Muslim king and Roman Catholic Pontiff was not their followers , but another conservative leader , President George W. Bush .
The first &quot; Holy Alliance &quot; was a creation of Austria &apos;s Prince Metternich following the Napoleonic wars .
It was an attempt to preserve the peace ( and the security of the relatively weak Austrian Empire ) through a coalition of victors upholding shared values .
Metternich &apos;s &quot; Holy Alliance &quot; was the one original political idea to emerge from Napoleon &apos;s defeat .
Behind its exalted name lay an innovation of great diplomatic significance : the introduction of an element of calculated moral restraint into international relations .
The vested interests that the Alliance members - Austria , Prussia , and Russia - had in the survival of their domestic institutions led each to seek to avoid conflicts that , in the past , they would have pursued as a matter of course .
Metternich &apos;s system worked through much of the nineteenth century , because it protected a genuine balance of power between countries that shared common values .
But what &quot; common values &quot; do King , Pope , and American President share ?
That such a meeting took place is a sign that both Pope and King believed that there was something to achieve .
Indeed , Abdullah , who believes himself to be the paramount leader of the Muslim world , is the first Saudi king to initiate a meeting with a leader of the Christian faith .
The two men met , seemingly as equals , not to express the common values of conservatism , but to confirm and promote their authority to uphold traditional values .
Both agreed that reform must be slow , cautious and that it must never undermine established institutions , especially religion and the patriarchal family .
Abdullah sought the meeting because he believes that the world since 2001 has divided the fraternity of conservatives .
Until then , he and Bush shared a common worldview , emphasizing the importance of religion , the traditional family ( as both countries understood it ) , social discipline , and the state &apos;s role in supporting these institutions .
But Bush , following the terrorist attacks of 2001 , turned his back on conservatism . He sought to radically reinvent the Middle East , not only by overthrowing the Taliban regime in Afghanistan and Saddam Hussein &apos;s regime in Iraq , but also through his strident calls for democratization .
American radicalism , however , resulted in increasing tensions between religious communities in the Middle East , and the rise of radical Iran with its bid for regional hegemony .
Since 2001 , Christian minorities have been targeted throughout the region , including even Lebanon &apos;s Maronite Christian community .
And in Iraq , Sunni Muslims feel under siege from the country &apos;s majority and now ruling Shia .
Here is where the Holy Alliance concept of moral restraint comes in .
Abdullah , perhaps earlier than most others , understood that some code of restraint was needed if the entire region was not to descend into a war of all against all .
Moreover , Abdullah understands that his wobbly regime will only be able to withstand the radical gales that are now blowing if it can forge the type of stability @-@ seeking alliance that Metternich built .
The King , like Metternich and the Austrian Kaisers , understands de Tocqueville &apos;s dictum that the most dangerous moment for a regime is when it starts to reform .
Having begun , ever so carefully , to politically open his country , the King knows that he needs regional peace and a lowering of Islamic holy rage .
The problem is that Abdullah cannot rely on his domestic conservative allies to give him the time that the Kingdom needs .
The Wahhabi religious establishment , the Saudi state &apos;s hidden co @-@ rulers , could very well obstruct Abdullah &apos;s attempts at regional religious reconciliation .
Members of the religious police remain adamant that the country &apos;s Christian guests must continue to live according to strict Wahhabi rules of behavior .
While the Wahhabis could yet be bribed again with oil money , the sect &apos;s power @-@ hungry judges eagerly await the next beheading , stoning , or lashing in Riyadh &apos;s public square .
Thus , uniting the forces of status quo conservatism , even if some of those conservatives are Christian , is the only viable diplomatic strategy open to Saudi Arabia .
For conservative rulers usually fall when they fail to grasp their own vulnerability , especially when the revolutionary challenge is cloaked in conservative garb .
After all , few political systems can defend against those , like Saudi Arabia &apos;s Islamic radicals , who claim that they can preserve the system and its religious values more effectively than the current rulers .
Only an alliance of conservative leaders and powers ( including a retreat by America from diplomatic radicalism ) , Abdullah believes , can restore some stability to the Middle East .
A New Model United Nations
The award of the Nobel Prize for Peace to the United Nations and to its Secretary General , Kofi Annan , is a cause for true celebration everywhere .
But celebrations should never become an excuse for complacency .
Yes , the UN has achieved much under Secretary General Annan &apos;s leadership .
But the idea of the United Nations as a uniter of nations remains , in many parts of the world and for many of the world &apos;s most complex problems , more an ideal still to be achieved than a living reality .
Some of the most powerful nations in the world still do not see fully cooperating with or participating in UN affairs as in their interest .
Beyond states , the world &apos;s many NGOs are growing fast and multiplying in their influence , but without formal rules to define their role in the international system .
Their real power , despite Secretary General Annan &apos;s efforts to create a dialogue with them , stands outside the UN framework .
Indeed , NGOs often assume tasks for which the current structure of the UN is unsuited or remains far too weak .
To assist them in their tasks , and to assure that the great global issues of the day are addressed in a forum that unites and does not divide , the UN needs to be strengthened in the fields in which NGO &apos;s are working so impressively .
Such strengthening can only be achieved by a fundamental reform of the UN &apos;s internal structure .
When the UN was founded in 1945 , the primary objective was to prevent the outbreak of World War III .
So , at its foundation , only one powerful body was introduced , the Security Council on which the world &apos;s great military powers sat .
The agenda of the Security Council was and remains power , and meeting crises , mostly with military means .
Today , however , the real threats to the majority of the world &apos;s population stems from dangers almost unknown back then : poverty , hunger , population growth , migration , the environment , and the like .
For the UN to meet these challenges , its very structure must change .
Two new councils , each with comparable power to the Security Council , are needed : a Social Council and an Economic Council .
The IMF , World Bank , and WTO should not only report to , but be dependent upon this new UN reformed structure .
Why are these new bodies needed ?
The world cannot do without rules ; it cannot move forward against our age &apos;s most pressing problems without defined legal rules and the institutions that regulate international law .
Because these institutions do not exist , the UN must now invent them .
Of course some rules , such as rules governing the promulgation of trade sanctions , now exist within , say , the WTO .
These rules , however , are but steps in the right direction : steps toward socially and ecologically sustainable free trade and against protectionism , especially that often practiced by rich countries .
Across the board , more global rules are needed so that global efforts to confront poverty , disease , and mass migration can be made consistent , predictable and most of all effective .
We have the Rome Statute of International Criminal Code ; we are heading for an innovative guide to best practice on how civil society organizations can best contribute to the work of the UN ; and we now have a large coalition , far beyond NATO , combatting terrorism .
I am grateful that one of the reactions to September 11th was , if I am not mistaken , a somewhat changed attitude within the USA vis @-@ à @-@ vis the UN .
But it is of a paramount importance that these kinds of change , namely , to incorporate real power into the structure of the UN , make more progress .
In dangerous times such as these , the world &apos;s peoples need to prove their solidarity .
The large coalition now fighting terrorism is one way to demonstrate this .
But solidarity also must be recognized within the real power structures of the UN .
The Secretary General convocation of a &quot; Dialogue of Civilizations &quot; is but a start here .
Far more needs to be done .
The institution of Social and Economic Councils at the UN would mark an enormous step in the right direction .
I have tried to present the ideas outlined here not only to the General Assembly but also to the permanent members of the Security Council .
I have also been invited to present them to the US Senate .
So far , none of those discussions have proved to be very fruitful .
But just as the time is coming when the US will to come see the UN as indispensable , the Security Council and its members will come to see the creation of new bodies within the UN not as rivals , but as the only means for the world &apos;s people , in solidarity , to confront the myriad social and economic problems that they face .
A New Path to a Low @-@ Carbon Economy
NEW YORK - The solution to manmade climate change depends on the transition to electricity production that , unlike burning oil , natural gas , and coal , emits little or no carbon dioxide - the main greenhouse gas responsible for global warming .
Low @-@ carbon electricity can be produced by solar , nuclear , and wind energy , or by coal @-@ burning power plants that capture and store their CO2 emissions .
The policy problem is simple . Coal is a cheaper and more easily used energy source than the alternatives .
It is cheap because it is plentiful .
It is easier to use than wind or solar power because it can produce electricity around the clock , without reliance on weather conditions .
To save the planet , we need to induce power suppliers to adopt low @-@ carbon energy sources despite coal &apos;s lower price and greater ease of use .
The obvious way is to tax coal , or to require power plants to have permits to use coal , and to set the tax or permit price high enough to induce a shift towards the low @-@ carbon alternatives .
Suppose coal produces electricity at a cost of $ 0.06 per kilowatt @-@ hour , while solar power costs $ 0.16 / kilowatt @-@ hour .
The tax on coal @-@ based electricity would have to be $ 0.10 / kilowatt @-@ hour .
In that case , consumers would pay $ 0.16 / kilowatt @-@ hour for either coal or solar .
The utilities would then shift to low @-@ carbon solar power .
The switchover , however , would more than double the electricity bill in this example .
Politicians are loath to impose such a tax , fearing a political backlash .
For years , this has stymied progress in the United States towards a low @-@ carbon economy .
Yet several European countries have successfully introduced the idea of a &quot; feed @-@ in tariff , &quot; which provides the core of a politically acceptable long @-@ term solution .
A feed @-@ in tariff subsidizes the low @-@ carbon energy source rather than taxing the high @-@ carbon energy source .
In our example , the government would pay a subsidy of $ 0.10 / kilowatt @-@ hour to the solar @-@ power plant to make up the difference between the consumer price of $ 0.06 and the production cost of $ 0.16 .
The consumer price remains unchanged , but the government must somehow pay for the subsidy .
Here is another way .
Suppose that we levy a small tax on existing coal power plants in order to pay for the solar subsidy , and then gradually raise consumers &quot; electricity bills as more and more solar plants are phased in .
The price charged to consumers would rise gradually from $ 0.06 / kilowatt @-@ hour to the full cost of $ 0.16 / kilowatt @-@ hour , but over a phase @-@ in period of , say , 40 years ( the lifespan of the newest of today &apos;s coal plants ) .
Assume that as of 2010 , the entire electricity system is coal @-@ based , and that the electricity price paid by the consumers is $ 0.06 / kilowatt @-@ hour .
By 2014 , suppose that 10 % of the 40 @-@ year transition to solar power has been achieved .
The consumer price is raised 10 % of the way from $ 0.06 to $ 0.16 , thus reaching $ 0.07 / kilowatt @-@ hour .
The coal tax for 2014 is then set at $ 0.01 / kilowatt @-@ hour , which is just enough to pay the needed solar subsidy of $ 0.09 / kilowatt @-@ hour .
Solar producers fully cover their costs of $ 0.16 / kilowatt @-@ hour , since they sell power to the consumers at $ 0.07 / kilowatt @-@ hour and receive a subsidy of $ 0.09 / kilowatt @-@ hour .
A small coal tax can support a large solar subsidy .
Suppose , further , that by 2030 the transition to a low @-@ carbon economy is halfway completed .
The consumer price for electricity is now set at $ 0.11 , exactly halfway between $ 0.06 and $ 0.16 .
The coal tax is now raised to $ 0.05 / kilowatt @-@ hour , just enough to cover the solar subsidy of $ 0.05 / kilowatt @-@ hour .
Once again , the solar producers cover their costs exactly , since the subsidy of $ 0.05 / kilowatt @-@ hour closes the gap between the consumer price ( $ 0.11 / kilowatt @-@ hour ) and the producer cost ( $ 0.16 / kilowatt @-@ hour ) .
Let us presume , finally , that by 2050 , all electricity production has made the transition to low @-@ carbon energy sources .
The consumer price finally reaches $ 0.16 / kilowatt @-@ hour , enough to cover the full cost of solar power without a further subsidy .
This approach allows higher consumer electricity prices to be phased in gradually , yet establishes strong , immediate incentives for adopting solar power . Moreover , the government budget is balanced every year , since the coal tax pays for the solar subsidy .
The actual transformation in the coming years will have one major advantage compared to this illustration .
Today &apos;s solar power plants might cost an extra $ 0.10 / kilowatt @-@ hour compared to coal , but such plants will be much less costly in the future because of improved technology .
Thus , the magnitude of subsidies needed in a decade or two will be lower than they are today .
Energy debates in the US , Australia , and other countries have centered so far on introducing a cumbersome cap @-@ and @-@ trade permit system .
Every major user of fossil fuel would need to buy permits to emit CO2 , and those permits would trade in a special marketplace .
The market price of the permits would be equivalent to paying a tax on CO2 emissions .
Unfortunately , cap @-@ and @-@ trade systems are difficult to manage and don &apos;t give clear signals about the future price of permits .
Europe has adopted such a system , but other parts of the world have repeatedly rejected it .
In fact , Europe &apos;s biggest successes in promoting low @-@ carbon energy have come from its feed @-@ in tariffs , and carbon taxes in some countries , rather than its cap @-@ and @-@ trade system .
The time has come for the US , China , India , and other major economies to declare how they will foster their own transition to a low @-@ carbon economy .
A small and gradually rising carbon tax that funds a feed @-@ in tariff system could win political support in the US .
It could also help to foster consensus among the major coal @-@ based economies , including China and India .
There really are effective long @-@ term solutions to manmade climate change that are politically acceptable and feasible to implement .
It is time to embrace them .
A New Science
An unusual meeting of scientists took place in Paris this summer , when scientists gathered to brainstorm about the need for a new science , one that could be as revolutionary as Einstein &apos;s insights were a century ago .
Most scientists assume that the basics of science are known .
In terms of big challenges , the conventional wisdom is that few things are left to discover .
The remaining options are said to fall into three groups : &quot; grand scientific quandaries &quot; ( such as uniting gravity and electricity into one theory ) which require a huge investment and first world infrastructure ; &quot; data collection , &quot; which is the field work associated with archeological digs and biological / genetic surveys ; and &quot; science @-@ informed problems , &quot; such as combating AIDS or addressing global warming .
Beyond that , many believe the only hard work will be to use existing laws to benefit humankind in new technological ways .
Who can argue ?
After all , today &apos;s models work .
But an emerging group of scientists points to phenomena that current theories do not address well .
These problems are exceedingly common and artfully avoided because the science that would account for them just doesn &apos;t exist .
This missing science would describe processes , and how entire systems evolve .
Individual scientific disciplines are understood fairly well .
Physics , at least the physics we encounter as ordinary humans , is well mapped .
Chemistry and biochemistry are similarly solid -- there are some things we don &apos;t understand about the body , but it is believed that the basic machinery of how cells and molecules interact is known .
Slightly apart from these are the new social sciences , which deal with humans and societies .
In each of these areas -- physics , biochemistry and social science -- the theories are mature and largely uncontroversial .
Each discipline has its own language and its own separate machinery .
Rarely is a scientist an expert in more than one area , because the worlds and languages are so different .
This means that we can &apos;t answer complex questions that depend on more than one field .
Consider the brain , for example .
This complex organ is composed of molecules that interact using the principles of physics . That information moves according to the laws of electricity .
There is also a system of specialized cells , and these interact , exchanging chemicals that also convey information .
The interaction between two brains adds another level : here , information is exchanged by means of languages , signs and ideas .
Information is at work on each level and comfortable theories explain how the separate ones operate .
But information is being exchanged between the levels as well . There is no science that explains this , even at the most rudimentary level .
To cope with this deficiency , some scientists have tried to reinvent the tools of one level in order to apply them to another .
This leads to such things as a &quot; language &quot; at the level of cells and &quot; energy &quot; behind organized societies .
Sometimes the transplant works well enough , but it does not address the central problem : What is the nature of the information conveyed between each level , and how is it conveyed ?
As it happens , nearly every system in the world is composed of such layers .
A similarly embarrassing lack of understanding about how the whole system works exists in every case .
The group of interdisciplinary scientists that met in Paris is loosely affiliated under the banner &quot; Foundations of Information Science . &quot;
They have been working in a distributed collaboration for eight years and come from a range of countries and specialties .
As well as scientists from the relevant disciplines , art theorists , psychiatrists , language experts and philosophers are beginning to participate in the discussion .
Most of the group is banking on the &quot; transplant &quot; strategy , in which the basic science of one layer is placed in another , tweaked and supplemented in order to be functional .
Others think that a whole new approach is required .
They assume that many scientific conventions are accidents of history and new abstractions can be devised .
If the FIS group is lucky , there will also be some radical input from thinkers that do not presently have access to first world infrastructure .
Independent thinking is an underestimated factor .
Nearly all the activities collected under the banner of &quot; science &quot; have developed institutional tendencies that are similar to their economic counterparts .
It is usually assumed that developing economies need to build resources that emulate those in the developed world , but this could actually stifle the most creative thinking .
Many scientific disciples are going through a revolution , and a lot of those ideas -- sometimes revolutionary ideas -- are bubbling up from labs and research centers that are unaffiliated with large institutions .
Twenty years of the most advanced thinking for mathematical algorithms came from a Soviet empire starved of computing power .
The cleverest , most literally earth @-@ shattering notions of physics for two generations came not from the expected powerhouses of the day , but from Budapest .
Iran has a tradition of architectural design that has revealed key insights to cognitive scientists .
Today , some of the most radical new ideas in second generation artificial intelligence ( so @-@ called &quot; autonomous agents &quot; ) are incubating in Prague .
The most creative breakthroughs became famous events .
When Einstein added new abstractions to the language of physics , the identity of space and time changed . The FIS meeting in July was the unheralded beginning of an attempt to remodel the universe in such a way .
The group identified the gaps that need explanation .
They will expand their pool of thinkers to include scientists from necessarily innovative regions . Following this , they will identify which problems might be solved if this new science is developed .
Or if you wish , discovered .
A New Start for Non @-@ Proliferation
VIENNA - US President Barack Obama has injected fresh momentum into efforts - stalled for a decade - to bring about nuclear disarmament .
He has committed himself to the vision of a world free of nuclear weapons and acknowledges the link between nuclear non @-@ proliferation and disarmament by the nuclear @-@ weapon states .
Obama has pledged to revitalize the 1970 Nuclear Non @-@ Proliferation Treaty ( NPT ) , which aims to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons .
The non @-@ proliferation regime , of which the NPT is the cornerstone , is in disarray .
The main problems are easily identified .
First , the five main nuclear @-@ weapon states have not taken seriously their NPT obligation to work for nuclear disarmament .
Instead , they have insisted that nuclear weapons are essential for their security and continued to modernize their nuclear arsenals .
This naturally robs them of the moral authority to persuade others not to acquire nuclear weapons , which continue to be perceived as a source of power and influence , and an insurance policy against attack .
Second , as we have seen in the case of North Korea , there is nothing to stop countries that sign the Treaty from simply walking out after declaring that &quot; extraordinary events &quot; have jeopardized their supreme interests .
Third , the International Atomic Energy Agency , which is supposed to police the non @-@ proliferation system , is shamefully underfunded .
When it comes to determining whether or not a country is conducting a covert nuclear weapons program , IAEA inspectors often have their hands tied , either because they lack the legal authority to gain access to all the locations they consider necessary , or because the IAEA &apos;s analytical laboratories are outdated , or because the Agency does not have adequate access to satellite imagery .
Fourth , export controls have failed to prevent the spread of sensitive nuclear technology , not least due to the sophisticated efforts of clandestine networks like the one run by Pakistani nuclear scientist A.Q. Khan .
Nine countries already have nuclear weapons , and it would be naive to presume that others , particularly in regions of conflict , will not try to get hold of them .
In addition , a number of countries with nuclear energy programs have the capability , if they choose , to manufacture nuclear weapons within a matter of months if their security perceptions change , because they have mastered the critical technology - uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing .
If more countries take this path , it could prove to be the Achilles &quot; heel of non @-@ proliferation .
Fifth , the international community , spearheaded by the United Nations Security Council , has more often than not been paralyzed in the face of challenges to international security and ineffectual in responding to suspected cases of nuclear proliferation .
These issues will not be resolved overnight .
But there is much that can be done relatively quickly .
The United States and Russia have started negotiations on deep cuts in their nuclear arsenals , which together account for 95 % of the world &apos;s 27,000 warheads .
Other key steps include bringing into force the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty ; negotiating a verifiable treaty to end production of fissile material for use in weapons ; radically improving the physical security of nuclear and radioactive materials , which is vital to prevent them from falling into the hands of terrorists ; and strengthening the IAEA .
Last month , I proposed a key measure to strengthen non @-@ proliferation to the IAEA &apos;s Board of Governors - establishing an IAEA bank of low @-@ enriched uranium ( LEU ) to guarantee supplies to countries that need nuclear fuel for their power reactors .
LEU cannot be used to make weapons .
Some such mechanism will be essential in the coming decades as more and more countries introduce nuclear energy .
My proposal is to create a physical stockpile of LEU at the disposal of the IAEA as a last @-@ resort reserve for countries with nuclear power programs that face a supply disruption for non @-@ commercial reasons .
This would give countries confidence that they can count on reliable supplies of fuel to run their nuclear power plants , and therefore do not need to develop their own uranium @-@ enrichment or plutonium @-@ reprocessing capability .
This could help to avoid a repeat of Iran &apos;s experiences after its 1979 revolution , when contracts for fuel and technology for its planned nuclear power program were not honored .
Thirty years later , some of the consequences are still being felt .
The LEU would be available to countries in need on the basis of non @-@ political and non @-@ discriminatory criteria .
It would be accessible at market prices to all states in compliance with their nuclear safeguards obligations .
No state would be required to give up the right to develop its own fuel cycle .
The money needed to launch an LEU bank is in place , thanks primarily to a non @-@ governmental organization - the Nuclear Threat Initiative - and initial funding from Warren Buffett .
But this can only be a first step .
It should be followed by an agreement that all new enrichment and reprocessing activities will be placed exclusively under multinational control , and that all existing such facilities will be converted from national to multinational control .
This is a bold idea , but bold ideas are needed now more than ever .
The opportunity to put the nuclear fuel cycle under multinational control was missed 60 years ago because of the Cold War .
The spread of nuclear technology and the growing risk of nuclear terrorism make it imperative that we get it right this time .
A New @-@ State Solution for Israel and Palestine
PRINCETON - Imagine a two @-@ state solution in Israel and Palestine in which Palestinians would have the right of return ; Israelis could settle wherever they could purchase land in the West Bank ; and Jerusalem need not be divided . This is not a fanciful vision , but a creative and eminently sensible reinvention of twenty @-@ first century statehood .
And US President Barack Obama &apos;s just @-@ completed visit to Israel provides an opportunity to explore genuinely new thinking .
Ever since Bill Clinton nearly succeeded in brokering a comprehensive settlement in 2000 , the mantra among supporters of the Israeli @-@ Palestinian peace process has been that , while a solution exists , Israeli and Palestinian leaders who are willing to reach it do not .
The solution is a version of the deal that Clinton sought : two sovereign states based on the 1967 borders , with negotiated land swaps to reflect existing settlement patterns . The agreement would include a land corridor connecting Gaza and the West Bank ; a divided Jerusalem with guaranteed access for all to religious sites ; Palestinians &quot; renunciation of the right of return ; Israel &apos;s willingness to dismantle settlements outside the agreed borders ; and recognition of both states across the Middle East .
But suppose that the reason that no Palestinians and Israelis willing to conclude such a deal have emerged is that the solution itself is domestically unsupportable on both sides .
Suppose that as long as a version of this deal is the only game in town , the creeping physical expansion of the Israeli state and the demographic expansion of Israeli Arabs will continue to erode its foundation .
For all the dire warnings that the window for a two @-@ state solution is rapidly closing ( or has already closed ) , it is the solution itself that is the problem .
In 2008 , a Princeton University graduate student in philosophy named Russell Nieli gave a talk at the Princeton Center for Jewish Life that was so well received that he later expanded it into an article for the US @-@ based magazine Tikkun , founded by Rabbi Michael Lerner .
The article , &quot; Toward a Permanent Palestinian / Israeli Peace - the Case for Two @-@ State Condominialism , &quot; was published with the express aim of stimulating &quot; productive thinking among a younger generation of Jews and Arabs not bound by the restricted vision and failed policies of the past . &quot;
&quot; Two @-@ state condominialism &quot; is as visionary as the name is clunky .
The core idea is that Israelis and Palestinians would be citizens of two separate states and thus would identify with two separate political authorities .
Palestine would be defined as a state of the Palestinian people , and Israel as a Jewish state .
Under &quot; condominialism , &quot; however , both Palestinians and Jews &quot; would be granted the right to settle anywhere within the territory of either of the two states , the two states thus forming a single , binational settlement community . &quot;
Think about that for a minute .
As Nieli describes it , Palestinians &quot; would have the right to settle anywhere within Israel just as Jews would have the right to settle anywhere within the territory of the Palestinian state .
Regardless of which of the two states they lived in , all Palestinians would be citizens of the Palestinian state , all Jews citizens of Israel . &quot; Each state would have the authority and the obligation to provide for the economic , cultural , religious , and welfare needs of its citizens living in the other state &apos;s territory .
These would be extraterritorial rights and responsibilities , just as the United States , for example , provides for its large numbers of expatriates , such as civilian dependents of US military personnel based abroad .
To make this work , the borders of each state would first have to be defined - presumably on the basis of the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed territorial swaps .
Israeli Arabs would then be required to transfer their citizenship , national identity , and national voting rights - but not their residence - to the new Palestinian state .
They would have a permanent right to live in Israel and would retain the benefits to which they are currently entitled as Israeli citizens , but they would now vote as citizens of Palestine .
All other Palestinians living in Israel would have rights and benefits only under Palestinian law .
Condominialism recognizes the reality of the deep interconnectedness of Israeli settlers in the West Bank with the rest of Israel - &amp; # 160 ; through roads , water supplies , electricity grids , administrative structures , and economic relationships ( just as Israeli and Palestinian parts of Jerusalem are interdependent ) .
Instead of trying to separate and recreate all of these structures and relationships , it makes far more sense to build on them in ways that benefit both states &quot; peoples and economies .
And , in a world in which many citizens spend an increasing proportion of their time in virtual space , de facto condominialism is already happening .
In the 1950 &quot; s , after four decades of war across Europe , the idea of a European Union in which member states &quot; citizens could live and work freely across national borders while retaining their political allegiance and cultural identity seemed equally far @-@ fetched .
( Indeed , the name of the political process by which the EU was to be constructed , &quot; neo @-@ functionalism , &quot; was every bit as abstract and cumbersome as &quot; two @-@ state condominialism . &quot; )
Yet French and German statesmen summoned the vision and the will to launch a bold experiment , one that has evolved into a single economy of 500 million people .
Why shouldn &apos;t another site of ancient enmities be the source of a new conception of statehood ?
Interestingly , many young people in the 1950 &quot; s , like my Belgian mother , ardently supported the vision of a new Europe . Today &apos;s young Israelis and Palestinians pride themselves on their entrepreneurialism , with all the risk and vision that starting something new entails .
Supporting and contributing to an innovative political start @-@ up would be their generation &apos;s defining act .
A New US Agenda for Latin America
MEXICO CITY - For the next American president , fixing the international mess inherited from the Bush administration will be no simple task .
While Latin America will not be a priority for either an Obama or McCain administration , continuing the United States &quot; neglect of the last seven years is no longer viable .
Two distinct political / diplomatic challenges stand out : Cuba &apos;s imminent transition or succession crisis , and the continuing ascent of the region &apos;s &quot; two lefts , &quot; one represented by Venezuela &apos;s President Hugo Chávez and the other by Brazil &apos;s increasingly influential President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva .
The next US administration will only prove successful if it grasps that Latin America is living through a moment that combines the best and worst aspects of its history : the fastest economic growth since the 1970 &quot; s , with poverty and inequality diminishing , and more democratic and respectful of human rights than ever before , but becoming more politically polarized .
In Cuba , Fidel Castro &apos;s eventual passing from the scene represents an immense challenge .
The US cannot continue with the failed policies of the past half @-@ century .
Demanding a full @-@ fledged democratic transition as a pre @-@ condition for normalizing US @-@ Cuban relations is both unrealistic and unpalatable to Latin America .
Yet the US cannot set aside the question of democracy and human rights in Cuba while it awaits the departure of Fidel &apos;s brother , Raúl .
Realpolitik and fear of another exodus of Cuban refugees across the Florida Straits may tempt the US to pursue a &quot; Chinese &quot; or &quot; Vietnamese &quot; solution to Cuba : normalizing diplomatic relations in exchange for economic reform , while leaving the question of internal political change until later .
But the US should not succumb to this temptation .
The US , Canada , Europe , and Latin America have constructed a regional legal framework , which must not be abandoned , to defend democratic rule and human rights in the hemisphere .
Cuba needs to return to the regional concert of powers , but it must accept this concert &apos;s rules .
Holding free and fair elections may not be the primary issue , but nor are they issues that should be shelved in the interests of stability and expediency .
Elections must instead be part of a comprehensive process of normalization : they should neither be a deal @-@ breaker nor a non @-@ issue .
While the US should lift its trade embargo as soon as Cuba &apos;s transition begins , everything else should be conditional on Cuba initiating a process of resolving all outstanding issues .
But Cuba is just part of what might be called Latin America &apos;s &quot; left &quot; problem .
Indeed , much has been written recently about the ascent of the left in Latin America over the past decade .
In fact , there are two lefts in the region : a modern , democratic , globalized and market @-@ friendly left , found in Chile , Brazil , Uruguay , parts of Central America , and , up to a point , in Peru ; and a retrograde , populist , authoritarian , statist , and anti @-@ American left , found in Mexico , El Salvador , Nicaragua , Cuba , Ecuador , Bolivia , Venezuela , and , to a lesser extent , in Argentina , Colombia , and Paraguay .
Some of these &quot; lefts &quot; are in power ; some , as in Mexico in its last , disputed presidential election , barely missed conquering it , but may still do so .
Over the past two years , it has become increasingly evident that the &quot; modern &quot; or &quot; soft &quot; left is , all in all , governing well . The other left has proved to be more extreme and erratic than many anticipated .
The former feels no urge to &quot; export &quot; its &quot; model , &quot; whereas the latter has a strategy and the means to do so .
The retrograde left today can realize Che Guevara &apos;s old dream : not &quot; one , two , many Vietnams , &quot; but &quot; one , two , many Venezuelas , &quot; winning power by the ballot and then conserving and concentrating it through constitutional changes and the creation of armed militias and monolithic parties .
It can finance all of this with the support of Venezuela &apos;s state oil company , implementing social policies that are misguided over the long term but seductive in the short run , especially when carried out by Cuban doctors , teachers , and instructors .
Herein lies a dilemma for the next US president : how to address the clear rift between the two lefts in a way that improves US @-@ Latin American relations , fortifies the modern left , and weakens the retrograde left without resorting to the failed interventionist policies of the past .
The best , strictly Latin America @-@ focused steps , are self @-@ evident , if not easily achievable .
They require strengthening those governments of the modern left , or those of the center or center @-@ right threatened by the old @-@ fashioned left , and simultaneously making it clear to the latter that there is a price to be paid for violating the basic tenets of democracy , respect for human rights , and the rule of law .
Turning its back in the face of such challenges is no longer a viable American option .
Aside from areas of particular concern ( oil , arms , guerrillas , drugs ) , the US needs Latin America dearly nowadays because resistance to it is springing up everywhere , and with greater virulence than at any time since World War II &apos;s end .
The next US president must reinvigorate a relationship that is ready to be substantially transformed for the first time since Franklin Roosevelt &apos;s Good Neighbor Policy of seven decades ago .
A New Velvet Revolution
PRAGUE : Rebellion by Czech TV journalists against a new director of the publicly @-@ owned Czech TV marks the climax of a ten year battle between two concepts of democracy .
The first concept is represented by former prime Minister Vaclav Klaus , the second by President Vaclav Havel .
Klaus sees political parties as the backbone of any democratic system and sees little place for civil society in politics .
He deems the proponents of civil society &quot; elitists &quot; who refuse to be tested at the ballot box and who try to influence politics through informal mechanisms .
President Havel argues that a democracy based only on political parties and basic democratic mechanisms is deformed .
In his view , political parties , although necessary , must be checked by a robust civil society .
If civil society is too weak , parties will seek to dominate institutions that should remain independent .
Over the past ten years President Havel has repeatedly asked the Czechs to be more active and to not let politicians control their lives .
Klaus &apos;s vision of democracy had the upper hand for most of the past decade .
Easily understood , it conformed to patterns of behavior most Czechs acquired during the communist era , when public and private spheres of life were rigidly separated .
True , communism &apos;s fall was brought about by a strong civic movement called &quot; Civic Forum , &quot; but that movement disintegrated once it achieved its goal .
With its passing , people became passive once more .
Klaus and his followers spearheaded the creation of well @-@ functioning , standard political parties .
But in the absence of a strong civil society , those parties monopolized public space , pushing civic activists to the sidelines .
Havel was the first important Czech politician to criticize this trend , warning against excessive partisanship and arguing that political parties would become internally weak but outwardly authoritarian if they did not draw inspiration from a vibrant civil society .
Unfortunately , Havel &apos;s vision of democracy appears complicated when compared to that of Klaus .
In the past , calls for active civic engagement and Havel &apos;s moralistic views left average Czechs cold and alienated political opponents , who accused him of promoting a nonpolitical form of politics .
Prompted by civic passivity , political parties not only came to dominate every aspect of Czech life but engaged in dubious practices that increased cynicism and public passivity .
At the end of 1997 , the second Klaus government collapsed under the weight of financial scandals .
Rather than learn from this fiasco , Klaus went on the offensive , claiming that he was a victim of a conspiracy hatched by Havel .
But his party , the Civic Democrats ( ODS ) , lost the June 1998 elections to the Social Democrats ( CSSD ) , whom Klaus vilified before the elections as a threat to democracy .
Soon afterwards , however , the Civic Democrats and the Social Democrats signed the so @-@ called &quot; opposition agreement , &quot; under which Klaus &apos;s party gained important posts and other advantages in exchange for allowing the Social Democrats of Prime Minister Zeman to form a minority government .
Klaus , Zeman and their parties also agreed to work together to limit presidential power and the independence of the Central Bank by changing the Constitution , as well as to change the electoral law in their favor .
Four smaller parties , who allied themselves in a four @-@ party coalition called &quot; 4K &quot; objected .
Protests against these political arrangements were criticized by the ODS and CSSD as attempts to undermine their efforts to ensure political stability .
Despite the fact that the opposition agreement boosted the popularity of the unreformed Czech Communists , the determination of the Civic Democrats and Social Democrats to continue dividing the spoils of power remained undiminished .
In the fall of 2000 , Czech voters rebuked both parties during regional and Senate elections , with the Social Democrats losing their joint majority in the Senate .
Because the Czech Parliament &apos;s upper house has an absolute veto over constitutional amendments , the opportunity to amend the Constitution was lost .
Loss of control of the Senate also meant that Klaus &apos;s hope to replace Havel as president diminished .
Defeat prompted Klaus and Zeman to try to and gain control over Czech TV by packing its council of overseers with their sympathizers .
Shortly before Christmas , Czech TV &apos;s director , who was resisting political pressure , was replaced by Jiri Hodac , a man with close ties to ODS .
TV journalists rebelled , occupying the station &apos;s newsroom .
The protests by artists , intellectuals and opposition politicians that followed were the biggest political upheavals since 1989 .
Realizing that the game was lost , the Social Democrats joined with Klaus &apos;s opponents in parliament on January 5th to demand Hodac &apos;s resignation .
Parliament is also working on a new TV law to prevent political parties from politicizing the TV Council .
But political realignment is not the most important news arising from this turmoil .
Of far greater importance is the reawakening of civil society which has , for the first time since 1989 , stood up to the political parties to reclaim the public space it relinquished ten years ago .
Equally important is the fact that for the first time since 1989 , civil society has found a voice independent of President Havel .
Unrecognized by almost everyone , Czech society has moved beyond Havel and Klaus .
It rejects Klaus &apos;s truncated democracy , and , although it supports ( to some extent ) Havel &apos;s vision , Havel himself is no longer the motor of civil society in action .
A New World Architecture
NEW YORK - Twenty years after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of communism , the world is facing another stark choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism .
The former , represented by the United States , has broken down , and the latter , represented by China , is on the rise .
Following the path of least resistance will lead to the gradual disintegration of the international financial system .
A new multilateral system based on sounder principles must be invented .
While international cooperation on regulatory reform is difficult to achieve on a piecemeal basis , it may be attainable in a grand bargain that rearranges the entire financial order .
A new Bretton Woods conference , like the one that established the post @-@ WWII international financial architecture , is needed to establish new international rules , including treatment of financial institutions that are too big to fail and the role of capital controls .
It would also have to reconstitute the International Monetary Fund to reflect better the prevailing pecking order among states and to revise its methods of operation .
In addition , a new Bretton Woods would have to reform the currency system .
The post @-@ war order , which made the US more equal than others , produced dangerous imbalances .
The dollar no longer enjoys the trust and confidence that it once did , yet no other currency can take its place .
The US ought not to shy away from wider use of IMF Special Drawing Rights .
Because SDRs are denominated in several national currencies , no single currency would enjoy an unfair advantage .
The range of currencies included in the SDRs would have to be widened , and some of the newly added currencies , including the renminbi , may not be fully convertible . This would , however , allow the international community to press China to abandon its exchange @-@ rate peg to the dollar and would be the best way to reduce international imbalances .
And the dollar could still remain the preferred reserve currency , provided it is prudently managed .
One great advantage of SDRs is that they permit the international creation of money , which is particularly useful at times like the present .
The money could be directed to where it is most needed , unlike what is happening currently . A mechanism that allows rich countries that don &apos;t need additional reserves to transfer their allocations to those that do is readily available , using the IMF &apos;s gold reserves .
Reorganizing the world order will need to extend beyond the financial system and involve the United Nations , especially membership of the Security Council .
That process needs to be initiated by the US , but China and other developing countries ought to participate as equals .
They are reluctant members of the Bretton Woods institutions , which are dominated by countries that are no longer dominant .
The rising powers must be present at the creation of this new system in order to ensure that they will be active supporters .
The system cannot survive in its present form , and the US has more to lose by not being in the forefront of reforming it .
The US is still in a position to lead the world , but , without far @-@ sighted leadership , its relative position is likely to continue to erode .
It can no longer impose its will on others , as George W. Bush &apos;s administration sought to do , but it could lead a cooperative effort to involve both the developed and the developing world , thereby reestablishing American leadership in an acceptable form .
The alternative is frightening , because a declining superpower losing both political and economic dominance but still preserving military supremacy is a dangerous mix .
We used to be reassured by the generalization that democratic countries seek peace .
After the Bush presidency , that rule no longer holds , if it ever did .
In fact , democracy is in deep trouble in America .
The financial crisis has inflicted hardship on a population that does not like to face harsh reality .
President Barack Obama has deployed the &quot; confidence multiplier &quot; and claims to have contained the recession .
But if there is a &quot; double dip &quot; recession , Americans will become susceptible to all kinds of fear mongering and populist demagogy .
If Obama fails , the next administration will be sorely tempted to create some diversion from troubles at home - at great peril to the world .
Obama has the right vision .
He believes in international cooperation , rather than the might @-@ is @-@ right philosophy of the Bush @-@ Cheney era .
The emergence of the G @-@ 20 as the primary forum of international cooperation and the peer @-@ review process agreed in Pittsburgh
What is lacking , however , is a general recognition that the system is broken and needs to be reinvented .
After all , the financial system did not collapse altogether , and the Obama administration made a conscious decision to revive banks with hidden subsidies rather than to recapitalize them on a compulsory basis .
Those institutions that survived will hold a stronger market position than ever , and they will resist a systematic overhaul .
Obama is preoccupied by many pressing problems , and reinventing the international financial system is unlikely to receive his full attention .
China &apos;s leadership needs to be even more far @-@ sighted than Obama is .
China is replacing the American consumer as the motor of the world economy . Since it is a smaller motor , the world economy will grow slower , but China &apos;s influence will rise very fast .
For the time being , the Chinese public is willing to subordinate its individual freedom to political stability and economic advancement .
But that may not continue indefinitely - and the rest of the world will never subordinate its freedom to the prosperity of the Chinese state .
As China becomes a world leader , it must transform itself into a more open society that the rest of the world is willing to accept as a world leader . Military power relations being what they are , China has no alternative to peaceful , harmonious development . Indeed , the future of the world depends on it .
A New Year of Global Conflict
DAVOS - In today &apos;s world , identifying and managing hotspots is not simply a matter of pulling out a map , spotting the wildfires , and empowering diplomats to douse the flames .
To understand today &apos;s major conflicts and confrontations , we must recognize important ways in which global political conditions enable them .
Conflicts are much more likely to arise or persist when those with the means to prevent or end them cannot or will not do so .
Unfortunately , this will be borne out in 2013 .
In the United States , barring a foreign @-@ policy crisis that directly threatens national security , President Barack Obama &apos;s administration will focus most of its time , energy , and political capital on debt reduction and other domestic priorities .
In Europe , officials will continue their struggle to restore confidence in the eurozone .
And , in China , though the demands of economic growth and job creation will force the country &apos;s new leaders to develop new ties to other regions , they are far too preoccupied with the complexities of economic reform to assume unnecessary costs and risks outside Asia .
That is why the world &apos;s fires will burn longer and hotter this year .
This does not mean that the world &apos;s powers will not inflict damage of their own . Today , these governments are more likely to use drones and special forces to strike at their perceived enemies .
The world has grown used to US drone strikes in Afghanistan , Pakistan , and Yemen , but recent news reports suggest that China and Japan are also investing in unmanned aircraft - in part to enhance their leverage in disputes over islands in the East China Sea .
By lowering the costs and risks of attack , these technological innovations make military action more likely .
Perhaps the lowest @-@ cost way to undermine rivals and attack enemies is to launch attacks in cyberspace .
That is why so many deep @-@ pocketed governments - and some that are not so rich - are investing heavily in the technology and skills needed to enhance this capability .
This form of warfare is especially worrisome for two reasons .
First , unlike the structure of Cold War @-@ era &quot; mutually assured destruction , &quot; cyber weapons offer those who use them an opportunity to strike anonymously .
Second , constant changes in technology ensure that no government can know how much damage its cyber @-@ weapons can do or how well its deterrence will work until they use them .
As a result , governments now probe one another &apos;s defenses every day , increasing the risk of accidental hostilities .
If John Kerry and Chuck Hagel are confirmed as US secretaries of state and defense , respectively , the Obama administration will feature two prominent skeptics of military intervention .
But high levels of US investment in drones , cyber @-@ tools , and other unconventional weaponry will most likely be maintained .
These technological advances create the backdrop for the competition and rivalries roiling the two most important geopolitical hotspots .
In the Middle East , US and European officials will continue to resist deeper involvement in regional turmoil this year , leaving local powers - Turkey , Iran , and Saudi Arabia - to vie for influence .
Confrontations between moderates and militants , and between Sunni and Shia factions , are playing out in several North African and Middle Eastern countries .
US officials have reason to believe that , over time , they will be able to worry less about the region and its problems .
According to current projections , technological innovations in unconventional energy will allow the US to meet more than 80 % of its oil demand from sources in North and South America by 2020 .
China , on the other hand , is set to become more dependent on Middle Eastern output .
Meanwhile , East Asia will remain a potential trouble spot in 2013 .
Many of China &apos;s neighbors fear that its ongoing economic and military expansion poses a growing threat to their interests and independence , and are reaching out to the US to diversify their security partnerships and hedge their bets on China &apos;s benign intentions .
The US , eager to boost its economy &apos;s longer @-@ term prospects by engaging new trade partners in the world &apos;s fastest @-@ growing region , is shifting resources to Asia - though US ( and European ) policymakers would be wise to move forward with a transatlantic free @-@ trade agreement as well .
There is a growing risk that the new Chinese leadership will interpret a heavier US presence in the region as an attempt to contain China &apos;s rise and stunt its growth .
We have already seen a series of worrisome confrontations in the region , pitting China against Vietnam and the Philippines in the South China Sea , and against Japan in the East China Sea .
While these disputes are unlikely to provoke military hostilities this year , the use of drones and cyber weapons remains a real threat .
The greatest risk for 2013 is large @-@ scale economic conflict in Asia , which would not only harm the countries directly involved , but would also undermine global recovery .
The first shots in this battle have already been fired .
Last summer , disputes over a string of contested islands in the East China Sea led to a furious exchange of charges between China and Japan , the world &apos;s second- and third @-@ largest economies , respectively .
The two sides were never in danger of going to war , but Chinese officials allowed nationalist protests to develop into boycotts of Japanese products and acts of vandalism against Japanese companies .
Japan &apos;s automobile exports to China fell 44.5 % , and China &apos;s imports from Japan fell nearly 10 % - all in just one month .
That was a tough hit for a struggling Japanese economy .
It is also a clear warning to the rest of us that a fight need not involve troops , tanks , and rockets to exact a heavy price .
A New Year \ u0027s Resolution
It is time for New Year &apos;s resolutions , and this year &apos;s are obvious .
When the millennium opened , world leaders pledged to seek peace , the end of poverty , and a cleaner environment .
Since then , the world has seen countless acts of violence , terrorism , famine , and environmental degradation .
In 2005 , we can begin to change direction .
Knowledge , scientific advance , travel , and global communications give us many opportunities to find solutions for the world &apos;s great problems .
When a new disease called SARS hit China last year , the World Health Organization coordinated the actions of dozens of governments , and the crisis was quickly brought under control , at least for now .
When Bill Gates donated $ 1 billion to bring vaccines to poor children , he made it possible to protect tens of millions of young people from preventable diseases .
When an agricultural research unit called the World Agroforestry Center discovered that a certain tree could help African farmers grow more food , they introduced a new and valuable approach to overcoming Africa &apos;s chronic food crisis .
Unfortunately , such examples of international cooperation are as rare as they are impressive .
With our knowledge , science , and technology , the horrendous living conditions of the world &apos;s poorest people could be dramatically improved .
Millions of people could be spared malaria , HIV / AIDS , hunger , and life in slums .
The problem is not that we lack good solutions . The problem is that we fail to cooperate globally to put those solutions into practice .
United Nations Secretary @-@ General Kofi Annan has honored me by making me his Special Adviser on the Millennium Development Goals and asking me to lead a group of scholars and development experts in identifying practical steps to reach the goals by the target date in 2015 .
This effort , known as the UN Millennium Project , will issue its report to Secretary @-@ General Annan on January 17 , 2005 .
Our study , Investing in Development : A Practical Plan to Achieve the Millennium Development Goals , will be available for free around the world at www.unmillenniumproject.org .
What we learned is easily summarized .
For every major problem - hunger , illiteracy , malnutrition , malaria , AIDS , drought , and so forth - there are practical solutions that are proven and affordable .
These investments , in turn , would strengthen the private sector and economic growth .
Yet they require global partnership between the rich and poor countries of the world .
Most importantly , the world &apos;s richest countries need to do much more to help the poorest countries make use of modern science and technology to solve these great problems .
The US , for example , currently spends around $ 450 billion each year on its military , but less than $ 15 billion to help the world &apos;s poorest countries fight disease , educate their children , and protect the environment .
This is a mistake , because military approaches alone cannot make America safe .
Only shared prosperity can truly make the planet secure .
The US should be investing much more in peaceful economic development .
Germany , Japan , and several other rich countries are also doing much less than they should - and much less than they promised the poor countries that they would do .
In 2002 , all donor countries committed to &quot; make concrete efforts &quot; to reach 0.7 % of national income in development aid to poor countries .
Germany , Japan , and the US , among others , remain far below this commitment .
The year 2005 will offer many opportunities for citizens around the world to insist that their leaders keep their Millennium promises .
After our report is issued in January , Secretary @-@ General Kofi Annan will issue a report to the world in the spring , identifying the practical steps that should be taken this year .
Around the same time , an important commission on Africa will issue a report to United Kingdom Prime Minister Tony Blair .
Then , in July , the UK will host the annual G @-@ 8 Summit of the rich countries .
Blair has promised that he will make the fight against poverty and long @-@ term climate change the two priorities of the summit .
In September , the world &apos;s leaders will reconvene at the UN to decide on their actions during the coming decade .
The rich and powerful nations often declare their leadership in the world .
The US claims that it helps the world fight poverty , but instead spends its money on weapons .
Germany and Japan say that they want a permanent seat on the UN Security Council , but neither has yet followed through on its own pledges to help the world &apos;s poorest people .
The world &apos;s poorest countries will ask themselves why they should vote for Germany and Japan to have permanent seats on the Security Council if they can &apos;t keep their promises .
Nothing would be wiser for the world &apos;s rich countries than to fulfill their pledges to the world &apos;s poor , hungry and disease @-@ ridden peoples .
Therein lies the path to sustained peace .
2005 is the year that words can become reality , and that the world can begin to fulfill its hopes for our new millennium .
Let us make our leaders aware that we aspire to shared peace and prosperity .
Let us pledge that the rich and powerful should take real actions to help the poor , the weak , and the suffering .
A Nice Mess in Nice
LONDON : A hundred years ago , the humorous English magazine Punch carried a cartoon which depicted a young and nervous curate eating breakfast with his bishop .
He was eating a boiled egg , and clearly not enjoying it .
The bishop enquired : &quot; I say - is your egg all right ? &quot; And the curate replies : &quot; My Lord , it is excellent in parts . &quot;
The cartoon caught the English fancy , and created a catch @-@ phrase still in use today , although it is usually misunderstood and misused .
Someone may say : &quot; It &apos;s a bit of a curate &apos;s egg , &quot; when he means that something is a mixture of good and bad .
But of course the point of the original joke was that the curate was just being polite : an egg is either good or bad , and his was bad .
This week &apos;s European Summit at Nice ( December 7 @-@ 9 ) looks like being a curate &apos;s egg .
The question is , will it be bad all through and a failure ?
Or will it be &quot; excellent in parts &quot; ?
The probable answer is : both .
It will almost certainly fail to achieve its immediate objectives ; but it may open the door to serious progress afterwards .
The ostensible purpose of the summit is to make those changes in the European Union &apos;s decision @-@ making machinery that would enable it to cope with the admission of at least 12 new members , mainly from Central and Eastern Europe .
Everyone knows that these changes ought to be radical , even semi @-@ federal .
At the very least , the coming enlargement will call for much more majority voting in the Council of Ministers , if the Union is not be paralyzed by 27 member states and 27 national vetoes .
But most member states are unwilling to contemplate anything that far @-@ reaching .
The host French , who currently hold the EU Presidency , have listed 50 policy areas where majority voting might be possible .
Every country , however , has special sensitivities : the Germans are unwilling to be outvoted on immigration ; the French are unwilling to be outvoted on trade in services ; the British are unwilling to be outvoted on taxation .
The cumulative result of all these national objections , is that the Nice summit is likely to see only a modest increase in the potential for majority voting , much smaller than enlargement requires .
A similar reluctance will dominate the rest of the immediate institutional agenda .
In principle , the Commission ought to be slimmed down after enlargement , with fewer Commissioners than member states .
Equally , big member states ought to have more votes in the Council of Ministers , to reflect their greater populations .
Small member states do not like either proposition , because they would lose Commissioners and votes .
On both issues , expect a serious tug @-@ of @-@ war , and any decisions are likely to be half @-@ hearted , or in practice postponed .
Yet , the 15 member states may compensate for their collective failure of nerve by opening up easier options for flexible or multi @-@ speed integration .
This might be a way round the majority voting dilemma , since it would allow groups of member states to cooperate together in particular areas , without waiting for the unanimous agreement of all partners .
Whether this would really be a desirable procedure is hotly debated ; but the fact is that multi @-@ speed integration already exists in the sense that Britain and Denmark are not now , and may never be , members of the euro .
If these scraps were to be the sum total of the Nice summit , it will prove unsatisfactory , even a failure .
But the real significance of the meeting may turn out to be , not the limited decisions which the heads of government are able and willing to take this time round , but the opening up , virtually for the first time , of serious discussion about the future direction of the European Union .
One thing that will happen at Nice will be the formal adoption of a Charter of Fundamental Rights .
In its present form , this document recapitulates all kinds of rights which EU citizens already enjoy under existing laws ; it is not intended to confer any new rights , and it cannot be enforced in the European Court of Justice .
In other words , it is a public relations conjuring trick , designed to make the EU seem more attractive , without actually conferring any real benefits .
Even as a conjuring trick , the Charter could be influential .
For example , Article 2 reads : &quot; Everyone has the right to life .
No one shall be condemned to the death penalty , or executed . &quot; It seems evident that this principle will be effectively binding on all member states , and all candidates for membership .
The question at Nice will be whether the Charter should be incorporated into the EU Treaties , and thus given the force of law .
Another similar question at Nice will be whether the time has come to simplify the EU Treaties , which are now a confusing jumble of general principles and difficult detail .
Simplification might be intended , at the start , as another conjuring trick : to make the Treaties more comprehensible to voters without changing anything in law .
But it could also become the first , essential step on the road to the drafting of a European constitution .
A No @-@ Fly Zone for Libya
WASHINGTON , DC - Leaders around the world are vigorously debating the advisability of establishing a no @-@ fly zone to stop the violence unfolding in Libya .
Some cite Bosnia , where NATO took too long to protect civilian populations in the mid @-@ 1990 &quot; s , as a reason to act . Others remember Rwanda , where President Bill Clinton later expressed regret for not acting to save innocent lives .
But the stakes in Libya today are more appropriately underscored by the tragedy in southern Iraq in the waning days of the Persian Gulf War 20 years ago .
As coalition forces were routing the Iraqi army in February 1991 , President George H.W. Bush encouraged the Iraqi people to &quot; take matters into their hands to force Saddam Hussein the dictator to step aside . &quot; When Iraqi Shiites , Kurds , and Marsh Arabs rebelled against Hussein , they believed that American forces would protect them against their brutal dictator &apos;s superior firepower .
Instead , when Iraqi attack helicopters and elite troops began butchering their own people , coalition forces were ordered to stand down .
The world watched as thousands of Iraqis were slaughtered .
The situation in Libya today is not identical .
Inspired by events in Tunisia and Egypt , the Libyan people rose up spontaneously against four decades of repression by Col. Muammar el @-@ Qaddafi .
Still , the specter that haunts me is the same - ordinary people facing off against an autocrat &apos;s airpower and well @-@ armed soldiers , counting on the free world to protect them against massacre after we have applauded and bolstered their bravery with our words .
So far , Qaddafi &apos;s forces have relied on airpower selectively .
But Qaddafi is shrewd .
My fear is that he is either choosing to bleed the opposition to death , rather than invite global action with a broad massacre , or waiting for the world to prove itself unwilling to act - at which point he might well begin killing civilians in large numbers .
We cannot wait for that to happen .
We need to take concrete steps now so that we are prepared to implement a no @-@ fly zone immediately if Qaddafi starts using his airpower to kill large numbers of civilians .
Diplomacy is urgently needed to build broad support for a no @-@ fly zone .
The most important imprimatur should come from the United Nations , where debate should begin immediately over a resolution authorizing a no @-@ fly zone .
China and Russia have expressed reservations .
If the Security Council fails to authorize action , those of us determined to protect Libyan civilians will face a more difficult choice should the violence escalate .
So our diplomatic efforts must extend beyond the UN .
The support of NATO and the African Union are important .
To avoid the perception of NATO or the US attacking another Muslim country , the backing of the Arab world is also needed .
On that front , there are promising signs .
The six Arab countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council have called for a UN @-@ imposed no @-@ fly zone .
The Arab League has endorsed a similar proposal .
Muslim countries in particular should support preparations for intervention if the violence spirals out of control .
Qaddafi cannot be allowed to think that he can massacre his people with impunity .
And he cannot be free to make those attacks more lethal by using his airpower .
If the UN cannot approve a resolution for implementing a no @-@ fly zone , then the US and its allies in NATO and the Arab world must be prepared to prevent a massacre like the one that occurred in Srebrenica in 1995 , when more than 8,000 Bosnian men and boys were slaughtered .
Of course , imposing a no @-@ fly zone would not be a panacea .
It probably would not tip the balance if the situation in Libya deteriorates into a full @-@ scale civil war .
But a no @-@ fly zone would eliminate airstrikes and save civilian lives .
It is a tool that we should be ready to use if the situation warrants it , and it would signal to the opposition that it is not alone .
Before that decision is reached , the international community needs to provide humanitarian assistance and medical supplies to the rebels in eastern Libya .
We must not allow them to be starved into submission .
The one option that should not be on the table is US ground troops ; no one wants to see US forces bogged down in another war , especially in another Muslim country .
And , as President Barack Obama has said , the Libyan people must not be deprived of full ownership of their struggle for freedom , and Qaddafi must not be given a useful foil and scapegoat .
Perhaps the mere threat of a no @-@ fly zone will keep Qaddafi &apos;s pilots from using their helicopters and fighter jets to kill their own people .
If it does not , we should make clear that we will lead the free world to avoid the senseless slaughter of any more Libyan citizens by a madman bent on maintaining power .
The US and the world community should also make clear - as we did in Bosnia and Kosovo - that we are taking a united stand against a thug who is killing Muslims .
A No @-@ Fly Zone for Syria
BRUSSELS - There is a saying , too often used in interpreting international relations , that my enemy &apos;s enemy is my friend .
Sometimes it proves true ; often it does not .
Thirty years ago , the Afghan mujahedin were mistaken for friends of the West when they fought their country &apos;s Soviet invaders .
But how lazy that assumption seems now , given all that has since happened .
Syria &apos;s deepening crisis , and the criminal use of chemical weapons there , has created a similar dynamic and dilemma .
But the West need not risk making the same mistake and accepting the same false choices .
Begin with first principles .
A chemical @-@ weapons attack on the scale just seen in Syria must be deemed a game changer .
Although possessing these weapons of mass destruction is technically not illegal , most states are parties to the 1993 Chemical Weapons Convention , which Syria has refused to sign .
So the answer to the question &quot; What happens next ? &quot; cannot be &quot; Nothing . &quot;
Principles of international law - in particular , the emerging &quot; responsibility to protect &quot; doctrine and enforcement of the global ban on the use of chemical weapons - dictate that some form of military intervention must occur in order to deter others from using WMDs , particularly against civilians .
But which measures are appropriate and genuinely useful ?
What is more likely to strengthen the West &apos;s security , and what runs the risk of weakening it ?
I believe that the fairest and simplest proportionate response would be to impose a no @-@ fly zone on Syria .
The proposal is particularly appropriate in the likely absence of any resolution under United Nations Chapter VII ( &quot; Action with Respect to Threats to the Peace &quot; ) , owing to the ( almost certain ) cynical use by Russia and China of their veto power in the Security Council .
Of course , claims and counter @-@ claims have been swirling in the aftermath of the appalling chemical @-@ weapons attack on a rebel @-@ controlled area east of Damascus .
But , given the brutality of President Bashar al @-@ Assad &apos;s regime , no one can doubt the lengths to which it would go to hide its guilt .
The five @-@ day delay in allowing UN chemical @-@ weapons experts to verify the attack gave Assad &apos;s government ample time to conceal incriminating evidence , allow it to degrade , or destroy it with further shelling .
The United States , France , and the United Kingdom are adamant that all the intelligence and eyewitness evidence points to the Assad government as the perpetrator of the attack .
There also is no doubt about the legitimacy of concerns about elements of the Syrian opposition .
The Al Qaeda @-@ led and Salafist extremist groups in the rebel forces , such a Al Nusra , have proved to be just as vicious as the government and its allies , the Iranian proxy Hezbollah and Iran &apos;s Revolutionary Guard .
But the united view of Western intelligence services is that there is no evidence that these rebel groups launched the chemical @-@ weapons attack .
In these circumstances , a no @-@ fly zone would not only clear the skies of Syrian warplanes and missiles , thereby reducing the scale of the slaughter ; it would also show Assad and his supporters that he truly is vulnerable .
Generals ordered to use chemical weapons would have to reckon with the prospect that the regime could , actually , fall , and that they then might find themselves on trial for war crimes .
It would be better , of course , if Russia and China would allow the Security Council to do the job for which it was intended - securing peace and preventing war crimes .
By continuing to support Assad despite his use of chemical weapons , Russia &apos;s standing in the Arab world has gone from patron to pariah .
What little moral and political standing Russian President Vladimir Putin has retained in the rest of the world is also evaporating , as he will soon discover at the upcoming G @-@ 20 Summit in Saint Petersburg .
But the world cannot hold its breath waiting for a change of heart by Putin and China , which is why a no @-@ fly zone should be examined as a military option .
In the aftermath of the Gulf War in 1991 , a no @-@ fly zone , initially proposed by British Prime Minister John Major , did not topple Saddam Hussein , but it did prevent him from carrying out further attacks from the air on Kurds in the north and Shia in the south .
Likewise , a no @-@ fly zone in Syria would immediately restrict the Syrian government &apos;s means of delivery of weapons of mass destruction .
Some military experts may say that Syria &apos;s air @-@ defense systems are too sophisticated to suppress , making a no @-@ fly zone too dangerous to enforce .
But Israel has managed to attack Syrian territory twice - destroying a North Korean @-@ staffed nuclear reactor in 2007 and , more recently , striking a Hezbollah convoy - with no casualties or loss of planes .
Mindful of this weakness , Russia has offered Syria its more modern S @-@ 300 missiles ; but there is no evidence that they have arrived , let alone been deployed .
And once Syria &apos;s air @-@ defense system is sufficiently degraded , it would be best if Arab countries - Saudi Arabia , Qatar , and other Gulf states - and Turkey used their air forces to police the zone .
Any malicious wishful thinking on the part of Assad &apos;s regime would be dispelled with every glance at the sky .
A Path through Europe &apos;s Minefield
LONDON - Earlier this week , a group of almost 100 prominent Europeans delivered an open letter to the leaders of all 17 eurozone countries .
The letter said , in so many words , what the leaders of Europe now appear to have understood : they cannot go on &quot; kicking the can down the road . &quot;
And , just as importantly , they now understand that it is not enough to ensure that governments can finance their debt at reasonable interest rates ; they must also address the weakness of Europe &apos;s banking system .
Indeed , Europe &apos;s banking and sovereign @-@ debt problems are mutually self @-@ reinforcing .
The decline in government bond prices has exposed the banks &quot; undercapitalization , while the prospect that governments will have to finance banks &quot; recapitalization has driven up risk premiums on government bonds .
Facing the prospect of having to raise additional capital at a time when their shares are selling at a fraction of book value , banks have a powerful incentive to reduce their balance sheets by withdrawing credit lines and shrinking their loan portfolios .
Europe &apos;s leaders are now contemplating what to do , and their next move will have fateful consequences , either calming the markets or driving them to new extremes .
All agree that Greece needs an orderly restructuring , because a disorderly default could cause a eurozone meltdown .
But , when it comes to the banks , I am afraid that the eurozone &apos;s leaders are contemplating some inappropriate steps .
Specifically , they are talking about recapitalizing the banking system , rather than guaranteeing it .
And they want to do it on a country @-@ by @-@ country basis , rather than on the basis of the eurozone as a whole .
There is a good reason for this : Germany does not want to pay for recapitalizing French banks .
But , while Chancellor Angela Merkel is justified in insisting on this , it is driving her in the wrong direction .
Let me stake out more precisely the narrow path that would allow Europe to pass through this minefield .
The banking system needs to be guaranteed first , and recapitalized later .
Governments cannot afford to recapitalize the banks now ; it would leave them with insufficient funds to deal with the sovereign @-@ debt problem .
It will cost much less to recapitalize the banks after the crisis has abated and both government bonds and bank shares have returned to more normal levels .
Governments can , however , provide a credible guarantee , given their power to tax .
A new , legally binding agreement - not a change to the Lisbon Treaty ( which would encounter too many hurdles ) , but a new agreement - will be needed for the eurozone to mobilize that power , and such an accord will take time to negotiate and ratify .
But , in the meantime , governments can call upon the European Central Bank , which the eurozone member states already fully guarantee on a pro rata basis .
In exchange for a guarantee , the eurozone &apos;s major banks would have to agree to abide by the ECB &apos;s instructions .
This is a radical step , but a necessary one under the circumstances .
Acting at the behest of the member states , the ECB has sufficient powers of persuasion : it could close its discount window to the banks , and the governments could seize institutions that refuse to cooperate .
The ECB would then instruct the banks to maintain their credit lines and loan portfolios while strictly monitoring the risks they take for their own account .
This would remove one of the two main driving forces of the current market turmoil .
The ECB could deal with the other driving force , the lack of financing for sovereign debt , by lowering its discount rate , encouraging distressed governments to issue treasury bills , and encouraging the banks to subscribe ( an idea I owe to Tommaso Padoa @-@ Schioppa ) .
The T @-@ bills could be sold to the ECB at any time , making them tantamount to cash ; but , as long as they yield more than deposits with the ECB , the banks would find it advantageous to hold them .
Governments could meet their financing needs within agreed limits at very low cost during this emergency period , and the ECB would not violate Article 123 of the Lisbon Treaty .
These measures would be sufficient to calm markets and bring the acute phase of the crisis to an end .
Recapitalization of the banks should wait until then ; only the holes created by restructuring the Greek debt would have to be filled immediately .
In conformity with Germany &apos;s demand , the additional capital would come first from the market and then from individual governments - and from the European Financial Stability Facility only as a last resort , thereby preserving the EFSF &apos;s firepower .
A new agreement for the eurozone , negotiated in a calmer atmosphere , should not only codify the practices established during the emergency , but also lay the groundwork for an economic @-@ growth strategy .
During the emergency period , fiscal retrenchment and austerity are unavoidable ; but , in the longer term , the debt burden will become unsustainable without growth - and so will the European Union itself .
A Peace Agenda for Global Development
MONROVIA , LIBERIA - This week , the 27 members of the High @-@ level Panel of Eminent Persons on the Post @-@ 2015 Development Agenda gather in Monrovia , Liberia , to advise United Nations Secretary @-@ General Ban Ki @-@ moon .
At the meeting , the Panel will establish a &quot; bold yet practical &quot; vision for joint action on sustainable development .
While these discussions - hosted by Liberian President and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Ellen Johnson Sirleaf , Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , and British Prime Minister David Cameron - take place , the nearby Sahel and the Great Lakes region continue to be plagued by violence and conflict .
Indeed , large @-@ scale displacement of people and unspeakable human suffering are occurring in many African countries ( not to mention in Syria and elsewhere ) , threatening to reverse the continent &apos;s unprecedented economic progress during the last decade .
The Panel ( of which I am a member ) must seize the opportunity presented by the Monrovia meeting to contribute to a global development agenda that addresses the vicious cycle of conflict and poverty that hampers economic activity and undermines human well @-@ being .
For more than a decade , the Millennium Development Goals , which expire in two years , have provided the framework for international development cooperation , with a focus on combating poverty worldwide .
In developing a new , comprehensive follow @-@ up agenda , global leaders should recognize that , although the MDGs have enabled millions of people worldwide to escape illiteracy , disease , and hunger , their overall impact has been inadequate , particularly in fragile , conflict @-@ ridden countries .
World Bank statistics show that no conflict @-@ affected low @-@ income country has achieved a single MDG , reflecting the framework &apos;s failure to address problems caused by organized violence and insecurity effectively .
That is why the post @-@ 2015 agenda should be centered on peace , security , and freedom from fear .
It should aim to make justice and prosperity a reality for everyone .
And it should reflect the understanding that development is impossible without peace , just as peace is impossible without development - and that lasting peace and sustainable development are impossible without respect for human rights and the rule of law .
Furthermore , as the Monrovia meeting &apos;s theme , &quot; National Building Blocks for Sustained Prosperity , &quot; suggests , post @-@ 2015 global development initiatives should emphasize support for national efforts to achieve strong , stable , long @-@ term prosperity .
Strategies that would help countries to overcome domestic insecurity and conflict , transform their economies , and , ultimately , meet their potential include strengthening governance institutions and the rule of law , ensuring multi @-@ stakeholder participation , and guaranteeing that all citizens have equal access to justice .
International support for such efforts would mean giving African leaders and stakeholders the opportunity - and the responsibility - to eliminate underdevelopment and boost prosperity .
Moreover , while poverty eradication will remain a paramount concern after 2015 , the focus must shift from national averages to local disparities .
Measures must move beyond overall social needs to bolster progress in productive job @-@ creating and income @-@ generating sectors .
And strong efforts must be made in conflict @-@ affected countries to promote reconciliation and prevent the revival of violence .
Given Liberia &apos;s recent success in post @-@ conflict reconstruction and human development , following a 14 @-@ year civil war , it is a fitting setting for the Panel &apos;s deliberations .
Since 2003 , domestic vision and commitment , together with international support , have enabled Liberia to hold democratic elections , reintroduce some essential public services , reestablish a public @-@ finance management system , and make progress in addressing endemic corruption , rebuilding public institutions , and reconstructing national infrastructure .
The Panel should view Liberia &apos;s ongoing efforts to secure peace , maintain stability , and initiate economic and social transformation as a blueprint for successful post @-@ conflict transition .
Other inspiring models can be found in Rwanda , Mozambique , and Sierra Leone .
The Panel is committed to creating an ambitious , coherent , and practical proposal for a sustainable global development agenda .
The process will be open , inclusive , and transparent , and will be informed by the opinions and experiences of experts and stakeholders representing young people , women , the elderly , and the disabled , as well as legislative , academic , and inter @-@ governmental actors .
The Panel will also take advantage of extensive online and offline efforts to engage with people worldwide and gain insight into the future that they envision .
Their perspectives will enrich efforts to develop an agenda that addresses their priorities .
In a world roiled by conflict , development efforts will always fall short .
The post @-@ 2015 global development agenda must take a comprehensive approach , combining poverty @-@ reduction measures with peace @-@ building initiatives and strategies for economic transformation .
In this way , global leaders can begin to lay the foundations for prosperity , justice , and sustainable development worldwide .
Future generations are counting on it .
A Peace of Water
PRAGUE - The global financial crisis may be grabbing all the headlines , but resolving it should not be allowed to crowd out other vital issues .
In the Middle East , for example , Israelis and Palestinians - as well as many others around the world - are beginning to believe that the permanent status negotiations to determine the future of Palestine are going nowhere .
The situation may be more promising than it appears , but one cannot deny that hope for real changes on the ground has faded since talks were re @-@ launched two years ago .
This loss of faith is , sadly , establishing a dynamic that will itself inhibit the concessions that are needed if a permanent agreement is to be found .
Because an impasse beckons , it is vitally important to work on those areas where intensive negotiations have the potential to produce quick results .
Fresh water is one such area .
Across the Middle East , water is a security issue .
Indeed , people are now recognizing two important facts .
First , nations faced with conflicting claims to water have historically found ways to collaborate rather than to fight .
Even during the 60 years of conflict in the Jordan Valley , water has more often been a source of cooperation than of conflict .
Second , water scarcity is seldom absolute , and even less often an explanation of poverty .
To quote the United Nations Human Development Report for 2006 : &quot; There is more than enough water in the world for domestic purposes , for agriculture and for industry .... Scarcity is manufactured through political processes and institutions that disadvantage the poor . &quot;
But almost every nation in the Middle East is using more water than arrives on a renewable basis .
There simply is not enough water for everything these nations want to use it for , and the situation will only worsen .
Yet , even in Palestine , the key water issue is not thirst , but arrested economic development .
In the short term , Palestine needs more water to provide employment and income from farming ; in the longer term , educational , cultural , and political changes are needed in order to develop a capacity to adapt .
The region &apos;s climate and geography mean that water resources are unavoidably shared .
But only if water is shared in a rational manner that respects the region &apos;s fragile ecology will human life be sustainable .
Clearly , no final agreement on water will be possible until there are agreed @-@ upon borders between the State of Israel and the State of Palestine , and some resolution of the Israeli settlements in the West Bank .
But interim resolution of water issues does not need to wait for final resolution of the major issues .
Finding rational ways to share and co @-@ manage water may be easier than solving the &quot; big &quot; issues .
In fact , water could help to create a climate of success that aids progress in other areas .
The good news is that the quantity of water that is needed for drinking , cooking , other household chores and sanitation is small .
Most water is used to grow food , so , if a nation &apos;s economy is healthy , there is scope for saving water by importing a greater share of food , although every nation will want to maintain some assured food supply for security reasons .
The bad news is that water , unlike land , cannot simply be divided .
Water flows on the surface and underground .
As it moves , it changes in quantity and quality , and it supports different ecosystems .
Moreover , demand for water changes over time .
Only a few percentage points of the Israeli GNP come from agriculture today ; as a result , its economy requires less water than it once did .
Exactly the same transition is likely to occur in Palestine , but it has not happened yet .
Few Israelis deny that Palestinians need more water .
Similarly , there is wide agreement that some water currently used by Israelis will have to be allocated to Palestinian use .
The current negotiations will inevitably deal with rights to water , which do not seem to be very contentious anymore , and the talks can suggest various mechanisms for transfer of management in some cases and for shared management in others .
These are eminently negotiable issues .
A flexible and sustainable formula can certainly be found , almost surely including a transitional period that allows both sides to adjust to and account for their different water management systems , as well as for changing conditions and institutions in the future .
The principle of a just division of water resources to meet the Palestinians &quot; urgent needs for additional water should be taken as a starting point .
Everything else can be worked out .
Shared water calls for flexible , continuous , cooperative water management , based on agreed @-@ upon rights and responsibilities , as well as ongoing monitoring and dispute resolution mechanisms .
One important point should be added : extensive public participation and transparency , in terms of both process and outcomes , will be key to successful management .
We believe that progress in the peace process and in finding solutions for water issues between Israel and Palestine would also help to unblock progress in the broader region , between the parties on the Jordan , the Orontes , the Tigris , and the Euphrates rivers .
Water can be a catalyst for regional cooperation , opening the way to a future comprehensive &quot; Community of Water and Energy &quot; to enhance the human environment .
In such a forum , water and solar energy in tandem could help to move the Middle East from conflict to collaboration .
The cost of inaction or merely pretending to act is likely to be high for everyone in the Middle East .
Future water policy should no longer be seen as an extension of current policy , but rather as a new opportunity .
Water is the essence of life .
People in Palestine and in Israel need it ; people in the region need it .
Cooperating to secure it is the only way forward .
A People &apos;s Economics
NEW HAVEN - We are in the midst of a boom in popular economics : books , articles , blogs , public lectures , all followed closely by the general public .
I recently participated in a panel discussion of this phenomenon at the American Economic Association annual meeting in Denver .
An apparent paradox emerged from the discussion : the boom in popular economics comes at a time when the general public seems to have lost faith in professional economists , because almost all of us failed to predict , or even warn of , the current economic crisis , the biggest since the Great Depression .
So , why is the public buying more books by professional economists ?
The most interesting explanation I heard was that economics has become more interesting , because it no longer seems to be a finished and closed discipline .
It is no fun to read a book or article that says that economic forecasting is best left to computer models that you , the general reader , would need a Ph.D. to understand .
And , in truth , the public is right : while there is a somewhat scientific basis for these models , they can go spectacularly wrong .
Sometimes we need to turn off autopilot and think for ourselves , and when a crisis occurs , use our best human intellect .
The panelists all said , in one way or another , that popular economics facilitates an exchange between specialized economists and the broader public - a dialogue that has never been more important .
After all , most economists did not see this crisis coming in part because they had removed themselves from what real @-@ world people were doing and thinking .
Successful popular economics involves the reader or listener , in some sense , as a collaborator .
That , of course , means that economists must be willing to include new and original theories that are not yet received doctrine among professional specialists .
Until recently , many professional economists would be reluctant to write a popular book .
Certainly , it would not be viewed favorably in considering a candidate for tenure or a promotion .
Since it does not include equations or statistical tables , they would argue , it is not serious work that is worthy of scholarly attention .
Worse than that , at least until recently , a committee evaluating an economist would likely think that writing a popular economics book that does not repeat the received wisdom of the discipline might even be professionally unethical .
Imagine how the medical profession would view one of its members who recommended to the general public some therapy that had not yet passed scrutiny from the appropriate authorities .
Medical professionals know how often seemingly promising new therapies turn out , after careful study , not to work , or even to be harmful .
There is a rigorous process of scholarly review of proposed new therapies , associated with professional journals that uphold high research standards .
Circumventing that process and promoting new , untested ideas to the general public is unprofessional .
In the decades prior to the current financial crisis , economists gradually came to view themselves and their profession in the same way , encouraged by research trends .
For example , after 1960 , when the University of Chicago started creating a Univac computer tape that contained systematic information about millions of stock prices , a great deal of scientific research on the properties of stock prices was taken as confirming the &quot; efficient markets hypothesis . &quot;
The competitive forces that underlie stock exchanges were seen to force all securities prices to their true fundamental values .
All trading schemes not based on this hypothesis were labeled as either misguided or outright frauds .
Science had triumphed over stock @-@ market punditry - or so it seemed .
The financial crisis delivered a fatal blow to that overconfidence in scientific economics .
It is not just that the profession didn &apos;t forecast the crisis .
Their models , taken literally , sometimes suggested that a crisis of this magnitude couldn &apos;t happen .
One way to interpret this is that the economics profession was not fully accounting for the economy &apos;s human element , an element that can &apos;t be reduced to mathematical analysis .
The relatively few professional economists who warned of the current crisis were people , it seems , who not only read the scholarly economics literature , but also brought into play more personal judgment : intuitive comparisons with past historical episodes ; conclusions about speculative trading , price bubbles , and the stability of confidence ; evaluations of the moral purposes of economic actors ; and impressions that complacency had set in , lulling watchdogs to sleep .
These were judgments made by economists who were familiar with our business leadership - their inspirations , beliefs , subterfuges , and rationalizations .
Their views could never be submitted to a scholarly journal and evaluated the way a new medical procedure is .
There is no established scientific procedure that could prove their validity .
Of course , economics is in many ways a science , and the work of our scholars and their computer models really does matter .
But , as the economist Edwin R. A. Seligman put it in 1889 , &quot; Economics is a social science , i.e. , it is an ethical and therefore an historical science .... It is not a natural science , and therefore not an exact or purely abstract science . &quot;
To me , and no doubt to the other panelists , part of the process of pursuing the inexact aspects of economics is speaking honestly to the broader public , looking them in the eye , learning from them , reading the emails they send , and then searching one &apos;s soul to decide whether one &apos;s favored theory is really close to the truth .
A Phantom Recovery ?
NEW YORK - Where is the American and global economy headed ?
Last year , there were two sides to the debate .
One camp argued that the recession in the United States would be V @-@ shaped - short and shallow .
It would last only eight months , like the two previous recessions of 1990 @-@ 1991 and 2001 , and the world would decouple from the US contraction .
Others , including me , argued that , given the excesses of private @-@ sector leverage ( in households , financial institutions , and corporate firms ) , this would be a U @-@ shaped recession - long and deep .
It would last about 24 months , and the world would not decouple from the US contraction .
Today , 20 months into the US recession - a recession that became global in the summer of 2008 with a massive re @-@ coupling - the V @-@ shaped decoupling view is out the window .
This is the worst US and global recession in 60 years .
If the US recession were - as most likely - to be over at the end of the year , as is likely , it will have been three times as long and about fives times as deep - in term of the cumulative decline in output - as the previous two .
Today &apos;s consensus among economists is that the recession is already over , that the US and global economy will rapidly return to growth , and that there is no risk of a relapse .
Unfortunately , this new consensus could be as wrong now as the defenders of the V @-@ shaped scenario were for the past three years .
Data from the US - rising unemployment , falling household consumption , still declining industrial production , and a weak housing market - suggest that America &apos;s recession is not over yet .
A similar analysis of many other advanced economies suggests that , as in the US , the bottom is quite close but it has not yet been reached .
Most emerging economies may be returning to growth , but they are performing well below their potential .
Moreover , for a number of reasons , growth in the advanced economies is likely to remain anemic and well below trend for at least a couple of years .
The first reason is likely to create a long @-@ term drag on growth : households need to deleverage and save more , which will constrain consumption for years .
Second , the financial system - both banks and non @-@ bank institutions - is severely damaged .
Lack of robust credit growth will hamper private consumption and investment spending .
Third , the corporate sector faces a glut of capacity , and a weak recovery of profitability is likely if growth is anemic and deflationary pressures still persist .
As a result , businesses are not likely to increase capital spending .
Fourth , the re @-@ leveraging of the public sector through large fiscal deficits and debt accumulation risks crowding out a recovery in private @-@ sector spending .
The effects of the policy stimulus , moreover , will fizzle out by early next year , requiring greater private demand to support continued growth .
Domestic private demand , especially consumption , is now weak or falling in over @-@ spending countries ( the US , the United Kingdom , Spain , Ireland , Australia , New Zealand , etc . ) , while not increasing fast enough in over @-@ saving countries ( China , Asia , Germany , Japan , etc . ) to compensate for the reduction in these countries &quot; net exports .
Thus , there is a global slackening of aggregate demand relative to the glut of supply capacity , which will impede a robust global economic recovery .
There are also now two reasons to fear a double @-@ dip recession .
First , the exit strategy from monetary and fiscal easing could be botched , because policymakers are damned if they do and damned if they don &apos;t .
If they take their fiscal deficits ( and a potential monetization of these deficits ) seriously and raise taxes , reduce spending , and mop up excess liquidity , they could undermine the already weak recovery .
But if they maintain large budget deficits and continue to monetize them , at some point - after the current deflationary forces become more subdued - bond markets will revolt .
At this point , inflationary expectations will increase , long @-@ term government bond yields will rise , and the recovery will be crowded out .
A second reason to fear a double @-@ dip recession concerns the fact that oil , energy , and food prices may be rising faster than economic fundamentals warrant , and could be driven higher by the wall of liquidity chasing assets , as well as by speculative demand .
Last year , oil at $ 145 a barrel was a tipping point for the global economy , as it created a major income shock for the US , Europe , Japan , China , India , and other oil @-@ importing economies .
The global economy , barely rising from its knees , could not withstand the contractionary shock if similar speculative forces were to drive oil rapidly towards $ 100 a barrel .
So the end of this severe global recession will be closer at the end of this year than it is now , the recovery will be anemic rather than robust in advanced economies , and there is a rising risk of a double @-@ dip recession .
The recent market rallies in stocks , commodities , and credit may have gotten ahead of the improvement in the real economy .
If so , a correction cannot be too far behind .
A Pig &apos;s Breakfast
LONDON - The Greek debt problem has been poorly handled by Europe &apos;s decision @-@ makers .
European Union heads of government , and the European Central Bank , initially rejected the idea of involving the International Monetary Fund , but without a fall @-@ back plan .
It is hard to avoid the conclusion that part of the motivation for this was French President Nicolas Sarkozy &apos;s reluctance to see Dominique Strauss @-@ Kahn , the IMF &apos;s managing director , ride in from Washington to the rescue of the eurozone .
Strauss @-@ Kahn is , of course , likely to be Sarkozy &apos;s Socialist rival in the next French presidential election .
Is Greece the &quot; canary in the coalmine &quot; - the warning that tells us that Europe &apos;s monetary union is on the verge of dissolution , with the other three of the famous PIGS ( Portugal , Italy , and Spain ) lining up like dominoes to fall ?
George Soros fears this might be the case , and gives the eurozone only a 50 % chance of survival in its present form .
Certainly , the episode highlighted flaws in the way the euro &apos;s governance - flaws that are no surprise to some of those involved in creating the common currency .
Helmut Kohl , one of the euro &apos;s principal parents , said in 1991 that &quot; the idea of sustaining an economic and monetary union over time without political union is a fallacy . &quot; Margaret Thatcher , from the opposite camp , said in her memoirs : &quot; I believe the European single currency is bound to fail , economically , politically and indeed socially , although the timing , occasion and consequences are all still unclear . &quot;
There may now be a market for a Greek translation of her book .
Although they might not agree with either of these two apocalyptic predictions , many of Europe &apos;s leaders are coming round to the view that there is a need for change , and that the Greek case has revealed a flaw at the center of the project .
Sarkozy , for example , has revived a long @-@ standing French argument for some form of economic government in Europe as a counterweight to the ECB .
The French usually advance this proposal to get some purchase on the ECB &apos;s monetary decisions , which they sometimes consider hostile to growth and employment , or in order to prevent other countries from maintaining unfair tax policies ( &quot; unfair &quot; usually being defined as a tax rate lower than the relevant French one ) .
In the past , the Germans brushed these arguments aside , but now they are a little more receptive .
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble , however , focuses on the issue of distressed members , and has advanced a proposal for a European Monetary Fund to provide assistance to countries in Greek @-@ style difficulties , roughly on the IMF model .
This idea has logic behind it .
The drawback is that it would require a change in the European treaties , which in turn requires a unanimous decision by 27 countries , and positive votes in referendums in some of them , including the United Kingdom if David Cameron &apos;s Conservatives win the upcoming general election there .
In the aftermath of the negative referendum votes in France , the Netherlands , and Ireland on European constitutional reform , it is close to inconceivable that EU heads of government would agree to set off down that path again .
Certainly nothing could be achieved on a timetable that would offer any comfort to the other PIGS .
They would all be bacon and sausages before any agreement was reached .
So , in the short run , the IMF will have to be used , if that kind of support is needed , and Sarkozy will have to swallow his pride .
But is an EMF really what is required in the long run ?
I think not .
Nor do I think that a European economic government is strictly necessary .
What is needed , though , is a collective agreement on fiscal discipline , and a revival of the Stability and Growth Pact , which was unwisely abandoned - ironically when the French and Germans found its rules too constraining .
Europe &apos;s leaders should refer to a paper by Otmar Issing , &quot; The Euro - A Currency Without a State , &quot; published in December 2008 , before the debt crisis erupted .
Issing , the ECB &apos;s chief economist in its formative years , knows more about how a monetary union operates in practice than any man alive .
He maintains that &quot; the Stability and Growth Pact contains all the rules that are necessary for Monetary Union to function .
There is no need for coordination of macroeconomic policies to go any further than this . &quot;
Europe does not need the French plan for coordination of tax policies , or another IMF , but there does need to be fiscal discipline to prevent other countries from free riding , as the Greeks seem to have done .
They apparently assumed that the rest of Europe would overlook continuing high deficits , and that , as eurozone members , the market would consider their debt to be just like German bunds , though issued by friendly and welcoming people in an agreeable climate , and with a glass of ouzo on the side .
The original Pact envisaged a 3 % -of @-@ GDP cap on fiscal deficits , save in exceptional circumstances .
Investors well understand that we are in such circumstances now , so it will take some time to get back to that level .
But that should be the clear aim , with IMF assistance along the way to provide interim funding where necessary and political cover for governments obliged to take tough decisions on public spending and taxation .
Fiscal discipline does not sound as visionary as &quot; economic government . &quot;
But the EU has suffered from a surfeit of &quot; vision &quot; and a deficit of practical budgetary measures .
It is time to redress that balance , or Soros &apos;s gloomy prognosis may become reality .
A Pivot to the People
PRINCETON - On February 1 , the United Nations Security Council met to consider the Arab League &apos;s proposal to end the violence in Syria .
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton represented the United States .
Midway through her remarks , she began speaking not to the Syrian ambassador , who was in the room , or even the Syrian government , but directly to the Syrian people .
She said that change in Syria would require Syrians of every faith and ethnicity to work together , protecting and respecting the rights of minorities .
Addressing those minorities , she continued : &quot; We do hear your fears , and we do honor your aspirations . Do not let the current regime exploit them to extend this crisis . &quot;
She told Syria &apos;s business , military , and other leaders that they must recognize that their futures lie with the state , not with the regime . &quot; Syria belongs to its 23 million citizens , not to one man or his family . &quot;
Speaking directly to citizens - seeing a country &apos;s people , as well as its government - is not just a rhetorical device .
While many foreign @-@ policy pundits have focused on the US &quot; pivot to Asia , &quot; Clinton has also executed a less @-@ publicized , but no less important , pivot to the people . She has introduced policies , programs , and institutional reforms designed to support government @-@ to @-@ society and society @-@ to @-@ society diplomacy , alongside traditional government @-@ to @-@ government relations .
These initiatives do not get headlines , but they will gradually transform much of American foreign policy .
In January , the State Department unveiled a new &quot; super @-@ office &quot; of Civilian Security , Democracy , and Human Rights , under the leadership of Under @-@ Secretary Maria Otero .
The office brings together agencies that focus on international law enforcement , counter @-@ terrorism , and reconstruction and stabilization with those charged with advancing democracy , human rights , and humanitarian assistance to refugees and migrants .
Otero explains the logic behind the initiative in terms of &quot; protecting individuals . &quot;
That , in turn , requires &quot; not just engaging state to state , &quot; but also working &quot; with players and actors outside of the traditional &#91; channels &#93; we &apos;ve engaged in . &quot;
Viewed from this perspective , countering terrorism includes rebutting terrorist propaganda with a strategic communications campaign .
Countering narco @-@ gang violence includes working with Mexican telecommunications mogul Carlos Slim to develop tools that allow ordinary citizens to report violence anonymously by text message and enable police to map the results .
Strengthening democracy means working with the Kenyan developers of a crisis @-@ mapping platform that allows anyone with a cell phone to text information about election fraud or violence to a central monitoring station .
On a country @-@ by @-@ country basis , pivoting to the people means engaging with Egypt &apos;s bloggers as well as with the ruling Supreme Council of the Armed Forces ; convening young entrepreneurs in Tunisia , Algeria , and Morocco and connecting them to funding and mentoring ; and using social media in Russia to rebut government efforts to smear the US ambassador .
And , working at an official level , it means co @-@ sponsoring with Brazil the Open Government Partnership , which brings together governments committed to increasing transparency , accountability , and citizen participation , and uses mutual peer pressure and open reporting to hold them to their commitments .
Thinking about countries in these comprehensive terms also provides a different strategic perspective .
Clinton has created a raft of new positions at the State Department to spur outreach to different social segments .
The strategies and programs developed by the Ambassador for Global Women &apos;s Issues , the Special Adviser for Global Youth Issues , the Senior Adviser for Civil Society and Emerging Democracies , the Special Representative for Outreach to Muslim Communities , the Special Representative for Global Partnerships , and the Special Representative for Commercial and Business Affairs often present a very different face of the US .
As a result , Clinton has launched an actual strategic dialogue with civil society .
For example , Ambassador Melanne Verveer has attended more than 1,000 events around the world focused on empowering women in areas ranging from peace negotiations to farming .
Similarly , she has launched programs such as mWomen , designed to expand and support mobile technology that increases women &apos;s independence , security , and access to health care and vital knowledge .
The Office of Global Youth Affairs is building a local youth council at every US embassy around the world , to advise and help to implement embassy programming aimed at local youth .
Much of the programming aimed at youth , women , entrepreneurs , diasporas , technologists , and other social groups is partly funded and conducted by the private sector .
Indeed , the Obama administration &apos;s National Security Strategy mentions &quot; public @-@ private partnerships &quot; more than 30 times .
Clinton created the Global Partnership Initiative to build as many coalitions , networks , and partnerships as possible with corporations , foundations , NGOs , universities , and other civic organizations .
Here , the pivot to the people includes the American people : the dynamism , creativity , and resources of American business and non @-@ profit organizations already engaged around the world .
One privately @-@ funded initiative spearheaded by the State Department will send 300 dogwood trees to Japan this spring , to be planted in the tsunami @-@ affected region and in Tokyo to express the American people &apos;s support for the Japanese people ; another will send English teachers throughout Southeast Asia .
After participating in the Friends of Syria conference in Tunis , Clinton convened a town hall meeting with Tunisian youth .
In her opening remarks , she told her audience that &quot; young people are at the heart of today &apos;s great strategic opportunities and challenges . &quot;
Speaking about her lifetime efforts to put &quot; women &apos;s empowerment on the international agenda , &quot; she added , &quot; It &apos;s time to put youth empowerment there as well . &quot;
The implications of all of this activity , which Clinton calls &quot; twenty @-@ first @-@ century statecraft , &quot; are profound .
From now on , US diplomatic relations with other countries will engage directly with their people and connect them to the American people as much as possible .
From the perspective of US diplomats , the people of every country stand on the same footing as their government .
That assumption is the heart of democracy ; it is a revolution for diplomacy .
A Planet for All Apes
MELBOURNE - Two new movies released this month - one a science @-@ fiction blockbuster , the other a revealing documentary - raise the issue of our relations with our closest non @-@ human relatives , the great apes .
Both dramatize insights and lessons that should not be ignored .
Rupert Wyatt &apos;s Rise of the Planet of the Apes is the seventh film in a series based on Pierre Boule &apos;s 1963 novel , Planet of the Apes , about a world populated by highly intelligent simians .
Publicity for the new film claims that it is &quot; the first live @-@ action film in the history of movies to star , and be told from the point of view of , a sentient animal . &quot;
Yet no live apes were used .
Instead , &quot; performance capture technology , &quot; originally invented for the movie Avatar , enables a human actor , Andy Serkis , to play the role of the chimpanzee Caesar , not by dressing in a chimp suit , but by having every gesture and facial movement , even the twitch of an eyebrow , transformed into the movement of an ape .
When I spoke with Wyatt last month , he acknowledged that there were practical reasons for not using real apes in his movie .
But he also understood the ethical issue .
&quot; There are things I didn &apos;t want to be involved in , &quot; he told me .
&quot; To get apes to do anything you want them to do , you have to dominate them ; you have to manipulate them into performing .
That &apos;s exploitative . &quot;
Wyatt &apos;s reluctance to join in the exploitation of great apes is understandable , given that the film itself tells the story of apes rising up in response to oppression from dominant humans .
The central human character , Will Rodman ( played by James Franco ) , is a scientist seeking a cure for Alzheimer &apos;s disease who experiments on apes .
Many films would have glorified a scientist seeking such a goal , and treated the use of animals for that purpose as obviously justified .
Rise of the Planet of the Apes , however , portrays Rodman as , in Franco &apos;s words , &quot; a cold , isolated person . &quot;
Only when Rodman &apos;s superiors cancel his experiments and he takes home Caesar , an infant chimpanzee , does the scientist begin to care about others .
The plot then takes another turn when Caesar becomes too big and aggressive to live in a human home , and is taken to what is supposed to be a primate sanctuary , but is in fact a dumping ground for unwanted apes , run by humans who display cruelty to the captive animals .
As far as the treatment of apes is concerned , much of the film is firmly grounded in reality , as a viewing of Project Nim , a documentary based on Elizabeth Hess &apos;s book Nim Chimpsky : The Chimp Who Would be Human , clearly demonstrates .
Nim was born in 1973 , in a primate research facility in Oklahoma , and was taken from his mother when he was only ten days old , to be used in a sign @-@ language experiment .
Reared as part of a human family , he learned to use more than 100 signs from American Sign Language , the language used by Deaf Americans .
But he was taken from his first human family and handed over to other teachers with whom he did not have the same kind of bond .
He grew stronger and more aggressive and began biting his teachers .
Herbert Terrace , the Columbia University psychologist who was directing the project , decided to end it and sent Nim back to the primate facility in Oklahoma .
There , the pampered chimpanzee - who , when asked to sort photos of humans and apes , put his own photo among the humans - was locked in a cage with other chimps .
He demonstrated his view of that situation by signing &quot; out &quot; to passing humans .
Nim suffered various other vicissitudes - and narrowly escaped being infected with hepatitis as part of a medical experiment - until he was eventually released to an animal sanctuary , where he died in 2000 .
In 1993 , Paola Cavalieri and I founded The Great Ape Project , an organization dedicated to the idea of recognizing that great apes have a moral status befitting their nature as self @-@ aware beings who are capable of thought and have rich and deep emotional lives .
At a minimum , they should have the rights to life , liberty , and protection from torture that we grant to all members of our own species , regardless of their intellectual abilities .
In the intervening years , that idea has made steady progress .
Since 2010 , the European Union has essentially banned the use of great apes in experiments .
Experiments on great apes are now either banned or severely restricted in New Zealand , Australia , and Japan .
In the United States , a bipartisan group of members of Congress is supporting legislation to end the use of chimpanzees in invasive research .
In Spain in 2008 , a parliamentary resolution urged the government to grant some basic legal rights to great apes , but the Spanish government has yet to implement it .
Perhaps the release of these two very different films will lead to a further push to bring great apes within the circle of beings with moral and legal rights .
In that way , our closest relatives could serve to bridge the moral gulf that we have dug between ourselves and other animals .
A Post @-@ Crisis World of Risk
MILAN - The global economy &apos;s most striking feature nowadays is the magnitude and interconnectedness of the macro risks that it faces .
The post @-@ crisis period has produced a multi @-@ speed world , as the major advanced economies - with the notable exception of Germany - struggle with low growth and high unemployment , while the main emerging @-@ market economies ( Brazil , China , India , Indonesia , and Russia ) have restored growth to pre @-@ crisis levels .
This divergence is mirrored in public finances .
Emerging economies &quot; debt @-@ to @-@ GDP ratios are trending down toward 40 % , while those of advanced economies are trending up toward 100 % , on average .
Neither Europe nor the United States has put in place credible medium @-@ term plans to stabilize their fiscal positions .
The volatility of the euro @-@ dollar exchange rate reflects the uncertainty about which side of the Atlantic faces higher risks .
In Europe , this has led to several ratings downgrades of the sovereign debt of the most distressed countries , accompanied by bouts of contagion spilling over to the euro .
More seem likely .
As for the US , Moody &apos;s recently issued a warning on the country &apos;s sovereign debt in the face of uncertainty about Congress &apos;s willingness to raise the debt ceiling amid highly partisan debate about the deficit .
Both issues - the debt ceiling and a credible deficit @-@ reduction plan - remain unresolved .
Moreover , economic growth in the US is modest , and appears to come mainly from segments of the tradable sector that are exposed to and benefit from emerging @-@ market demand .
The non @-@ tradable sector , which created virtually all of the new employment in the two decades prior to the crisis , is stagnating , owing to a shortfall in domestic demand and seriously constrained government budgets .
The result is persistent unemployment . &amp; nbsp ; Meanwhile , the tradable side is not large enough in competitive terms to take up the slack in growth and employment .
By contrast , emerging markets &quot; rapid growth and urbanization are delivering a global investment boom , documented in a recent McKinsey Global Institute study .
A likely consequence is that the cost of capital will rise in the next few years , putting pressure on highly leveraged entities , including governments that have grown accustomed to a low interest @-@ rate environment and may not see this shift coming .
Countries with persistent structural current @-@ account deficits will incur additional external @-@ financing costs , and eventually will reach the limits of leverage .
At that point , the weak productivity and competitiveness of their tradable sectors will become clear .
Adjustments will need to be made .
The options are higher investment levels financed by domestic savings , productivity growth , and increased competitiveness , or stagnant real incomes as rebalancing occurs through the exchange @-@ rate mechanism ( or a large dose of domestic deflation in the debt @-@ distressed eurozone countries , since they do not control their own exchange rates ) .
Many of these structural problems were hidden from view before the crisis , thereby delaying both market and policy responses .
In the US , excess domestic consumption , based on a debt @-@ fueled asset bubble , helped to sustain employment and growth , though the current account held worrying signs .
In several European countries , governments , aided by low interest rates , filled in the gap created by lagging productivity .
In all cases , assessments of fiscal balance were mistakenly predicated on the assumed stability and sustainability of the existing growth paths .
The assumption that a benign growth and interest @-@ rate environment was a permanent state of affairs led to a massive failure of fiscal counter @-@ cyclicality in the advanced economies , as budget deficits became chronic , rather than a response to depressed domestic demand .
In emerging markets , China &apos;s growth is crucial , owing to its size and importance as an export market for Brazil , India , South Korea , Japan , and even Germany .
But inflation is a dual threat to China , jeopardizing both economic growth and internal cohesion .
Housing has become unaffordable for many young people entering the work force .
Reining in price and asset inflation without undermining growth will be a delicate balancing act .
Moreover , China shares with the US the challenge of limiting growth in income inequality .
In both cases , the employment engines need to keep running or be restarted , in order to prevent political volatility and social unrest .
Protectionism on a large scale is not a likely outcome - at least not yet - but that could change if employment and distributional issues are not handled well .
For Asia , which is relatively poor in resources compared to the Middle East , Latin America , and Africa , the rising cost of commodities , driven in part by emerging @-@ market growth , is a cause for concern .
Energy security is also a notable risk factor , especially given the uncertain outcomes of the popular uprisings in the Middle East .
Emerging @-@ market growth is the world &apos;s bright spot and looks to be sustainable even as the advanced countries experience an extended period of rebalancing and slow growth .
But even there , risks lurk .
A major downturn in Europe or America would have a significant negative impact on these economies , which can generate enough incremental demand to sustain their own growth , but not enough to make up for a large drop in advanced @-@ country demand .
Markets may have factored in the combined effect of these macro risks , which nowadays are pervasive and correlated , but I doubt it .
Nonetheless , all countries share a strong and immediate interest in reducing them .
Let &apos;s hope that an awareness of this will add a much @-@ needed sense of urgency to national policy responses , as well as to efforts by the G @-@ 20 and other international bodies to improve international policy coordination .
A Post @-@ Nuclear Euro @-@ Atlantic Security Order
WASHINGTON , DC - As we enter 2011 , the Euro @-@ Atlantic region is a study in strategic contrasts .
Over the past 20 years , no geo @-@ political space has undergone as dramatic a transformation as that between the Atlantic and the Urals .
In our lifetimes , we have seen a welcome change from the darkest days of the Cold War , when a devastating conventional and nuclear war in Europe was a real possibility , to a new era in which no state faces this type of existential threat .
But , despite these positive developments , the two largest powers in the region - the United States and Russia - each still possesses thousands of nuclear weapons , accounting for more than 90 % of the world &apos;s nuclear inventory .
Many of these weapons remain deployed or designed for use within the Euro @-@ Atlantic region .
Reduction and elimination of this Cold War @-@ era nuclear infrastructure is the largest piece of unfinished business from that bygone time .
The continuing existence of large strategic nuclear forces deployed on high alert , and of tactical nuclear weapons deployed in certain NATO states and Russia , creates a risk of accidental , unauthorized , or mistaken use , and of terrorist groups acquiring these assets .
So security vigilance is essential .
To meet this challenge , the three of us - building on the action plan adopted by consensus at the 2010 Non @-@ Proliferation Treaty ( NPT ) Review Conference - have endorsed a series of urgent , practical steps towards the long @-@ term goal of a world free of nuclear weapons .
These include :
· increasing assured warning and decision times for the launch of nuclear @-@ armed ballistic missiles ;
· developing cooperative missile @-@ defense and early @-@ warning systems ;
· ensuring the highest possible standards of security for nuclear weapons and materials ;
· beginning a dialogue on tactical nuclear weapons involving Russia , the US , and NATO ;
· adopting a process to bring the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty into effect ;
· developing international and multilateral approaches to manage the risks of fuel production for civilian nuclear power ; and
· further reductions in US and Russian nuclear forces .
As former US Secretary of State George P. Shultz , former US Secretary of Defense William J. Perry , former US Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger , and former US Senator Sam Nunn put it in 2007 , &quot; Without the bold vision &#91; of a nuclear weapons @-@ free world &#93; , the actions will not be perceived as fair or urgent .
Without the actions , the vision will not be perceived as realistic or possible . &quot;
Perhaps the most crucial step toward realizing this vision is to redouble our efforts to resolve regional confrontations and conflicts that give rise to new nuclear powers .
The great swath of states stretching from North America across Europe through Russia has a vital role to play in stabilizing an increasingly fragmented and stressed international order .
These states can play this role , however , only if first they transform this geographic space into a genuinely inclusive and vibrant security community .
Failing that ( and we are failing today ) the Euro @-@ Atlantic states and their organizations will settle for suboptimal - and too often utterly inadequate - responses to the twenty @-@ first century &apos;s security challenges , including the threat of nuclear proliferation .
Lately , several national leaders , including the Russian and US presidents and NATO secretary @-@ general , have embraced the idea of a Euro @-@ Atlantic security community , and begun stressing the importance of fashioning a stronger and more inclusive European security order .
The timing could not be better , as the Euro @-@ Atlantic family has entered a critical period .
On November 19 @-@ 20 , NATO heads of states approved a new &quot; strategic concept &quot; to guide the organization for the next decade At the same time Russian President D. Medvedev and his NATO counterparts issued a joint statement , endorsing the first Joint Review of 21st Century Common Security Challenges and deciding to resume Threat Missile Defence Cooperation .
Two weeks later , the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe ( OSCE ) heads of state assembled in Astana , Kazakhstan , to help shape the OSCE &apos;s next stage of development .
Joint action on nuclear @-@ threat reduction must be a critical element in moving the Euro @-@ Atlantic nations toward a level of stability and strength and allow them to exercise badly needed global leadership .
Achieving a genuinely collaborative approach to missile @-@ defense matters will address a common threat and help remove misgivings that are blocking progress toward a common security space .
Similarly , the Euro @-@ Atlantic states can mobilize behind efforts to strengthen the International Atomic Energy Agency &apos;s safeguards system , which ensures the non @-@ diversion of peaceful nuclear programs , in order to foster cooperation on countering the threat of nuclear terrorism , and to develop new mechanisms to protect jointly critical infrastructure from cyber attack .
Such actions are crucial to these states &quot; national security and global efforts to mitigate threats .
Pursuing arrangements that increase warning and decision @-@ making time for all countries in the Euro @-@ Atlantic region would introduce stability into the NATO @-@ Russia relationship .
Adjustments in operational doctrine , as applied to strategic , tactical , and conventional forces , would constitute a giant step toward ending the relationship &apos;s militarized framework .
This is only a partial list of what must be done if governments are serious about building a stronger , inclusive European security order , one where the roles and risks of nuclear weapons are reduced , and ultimately eliminated .
The three of us are working with a distinguished group from all corners of the Euro @-@ Atlantic region to develop these and other concrete steps that are essential to creating a genuine security community , including its economic , energy , and environmental dimensions .
NATO , OSCE , and other key regional institutions must give this concept and process their essential support .
A President in the Dock
NEW YORK - In a way , the stir aroused by the decision by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) to indict Sudan &apos;s President Omar al @-@ Bashir for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Darfur is a surprise .
After all , the Court has no means of its own to arrest anyone in Sudan , much less a head of state who commands the country &apos;s armed forces .
Nor is there any prospect that someone else will intervene in Sudan to make an arrest .
While the ICC &apos;s chief prosecutor , Luis Moreno @-@ Ocampo , expresses confidence that Bashir will be brought to justice , it is unclear how this will happen .
But it could .
Despite the ICC &apos;s seeming powerlessness , many governments &quot; leaders are engaged in strenuous efforts to block the indictment .
They do not seem concerned that the charges are unfair ; rather , they appear to be demonstrating solidarity with a fellow head of state .
Those denouncing the attempt to put Bashir on trial include the large blocs of countries that are members of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the African Union , together with such powerful states as China and Russia .
One can only guess whether some of those joining this effort are motivated by concern that they themselves may some day face charges like those leveled at Bashir by the ICC judges .
Though Bashir may be able to avoid arrest simply by limiting his international travel , the commotion provoked by the indictment is not irrational .
The charges against him have a powerful stigmatizing effect .
The fact that a panel of judges representing the 108 governments that are parties to the ICC has accused Bashir of principal responsibility for the crimes committed in Darfur during the past six years undermines the legitimacy of his continued rule .
Those crimes have caused more than 300,000 deaths , and have forcibly displaced at least another 2.7 million people .
Even if Bashir &apos;s fellow heads of state succeed in their effort to persuade the United Nations Security Council to defer prosecution - which is highly unlikely - the charges will continue to hang over Bashir &apos;s head unless and until he stands trial .
In 1999 , an international criminal tribunal indicted another sitting head of state , Slobodan Milosevic of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia .
Though he seemed secure at the time , a year and a half later he was sent to The Hague to stand trial .
Similarly , in 2003 , an international criminal tribunal indicted Liberia &apos;s then president , Charles Taylor .
He had to flee Liberia a few months later and initially received asylum in Nigeria , but is now on trial in The Hague .
When those indictments were issued , no one could have predicted how events would unfold ; in retrospect , it is evident that the indictments &quot; delegitimizing effects had important consequences .
Of course , the ICC &apos;s prosecutor and judges are themselves taking a substantial risk in the indictment of Bashir .
The Court is still in its infancy , and antagonizing the many government leaders expressing solidarity with him could jeopardize its future .
Yet it should be recognized that the Court &apos;s personnel are carrying out their duties .
The treaty establishing the ICC explicitly states that heads of state do not enjoy immunity .
And the Security Council referred the Darfur case to the Court in 2005 .
This was an investigation that had to be conducted , and those found to have the highest level of responsibility for the crimes had to be indicted .
Many of those now objecting to the prosecution of Bashir participated in the decisions leading to the indictment .
If the ICC &apos;s indictment now causes them discomfort , that is only because they did not anticipate that the Court would carry out the responsibilities that they themselves assigned to it .
A Press Without Principles
NEW YORK - Julian Assange , the founder of WikiLeaks , is in the news again , this time after former Swiss banker Rudolf Elmer turned over to him confidential records on roughly 2,000 wealthy individuals that Elmer claims contain evidence of money laundering and tax evasion .
Elmer was quickly convicted of violating Switzerland &apos;s bank @-@ secrecy law , but few journalists have demanded that Assange be prosecuted for his role in the affair .
That , apparently , happens only in the United States .
There , in the midst of the debate over WikiLeaks &quot; ongoing release of classified US State Department cables , and as the government threatens Assange with extradition and prosecution , respected journalists are running for cover .
One would expect lead editorials by The New York Times , The Wall Street Journal , and USA Today , not to mention all major television outlets , defending WikiLeaks &quot; right to publish .
Instead , all we have heard is an awkward , deafening , and breathtakingly hypocritical silence - or worse .
Most American journalists fully understand that Assange did not illegally obtain classified material ; the criminally liable party is whoever released the material to the site .
He is not the equivalent of Daniel Ellsberg , who in 1971 illegally released the Pentagon Papers , the US military &apos;s secret history of the Vietnam War ; rather , he is analogous to The New York Times , which made the brave and correct decision to publish that material .
Moreover , American journalists know perfectly well that they , too , traffic in classified material constantly - indeed , many prominent US reporters have built lucrative careers doing exactly what Assange is doing .
Any dinner party in media circles in New York or Washington features journalists jauntily showing prospective employers their goods , or trading favors with each other , by disclosing classified information .
On CNN recently , a long pause followed when I asked legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin - who was calling for Assange &apos;s arrest - if he had really never handled classified information .
That is what serious journalists do , after all : their job is to find out what government officials do not want revealed .
American journalists also know that the government classifies information mostly to spare it embarrassment , or for expediency , rather than because it has genuine national @-@ security concerns .
Many of the Washington Post reporter Bob Woodward &apos;s bestselling books , which have made him America &apos;s highest @-@ paid print journalist , are based on classified information .
So where are the calls for Woodward &apos;s arrest ?
Why do all these reporters , who get praise and money for doing what Assange has done , maintain a cowardly silence ( at best ) while a fellow publisher faces threats of extradition , banning , and espionage charges ( which can incur the death penalty ) , not to mention calls for his assassination ?
One reason might be the sexual @-@ misconduct charges against Assange .
But any serious journalist knows that the two issues must not be conflated .
The right to free expression applies to rogues and scoundrels , sleazy personalities , and even criminals .
Indeed , the most famous free @-@ speech cases - the ones that are supposed to showcase America &apos;s strength and moral power - involve the protection of speech that most decent people hate .
So , again : why have US journalists and editors turned Assange into a pariah ?
According to Nancy Youssef , a journalist for McClatchy Newspapers , the Freedom of the Press Committee of the Overseas Press Club of America in New York City declared Assange to be &quot; not one of us . &quot;
The Associated Press refuses to comment on him .
And even the National Press Club decided not to speak publicly about the possibility that Assange may be charged with a crime .
Instead , it has fallen to foreign press organizations to defend him .
The Assange case shows that no coup is needed to close down an open society .
You need only accomplish a few key critical tasks .
One is to intimidate journalists , say , by accusing a high @-@ profile reporter of &quot; treason &quot; or endangering national security through his reporting , and then threatening him with torture , a show trial , or indefinite detention .
No mass arrests or further threats are required , because other reporters immediately start to police and censor themselves - and to attack the &quot; traitor &quot; in their midst .
There is another sense in which , from the perspective of establishment US journalists , Assange is &quot; not one of us . &quot;
American journalism &apos;s business model is collapsing ; the people who should be defending Assange are facing salary cuts or unemployment , owing in large part to the medium that he represents .
These journalists &quot; self @-@ interested prejudice against a medium in which they are not the gatekeepers prevents them from conceding that Assange is a publisher , rather than some sort of hybrid terrorist blogger .
In this , paradoxically , they have become like the outraged US government officials who are now threatening Assange , and who also are no longer able to control the flow of information .
In their behavior toward Assange , the US government and major American media are lashing out at the face of a future in which there are no traditional gatekeepers , and all institutions live in glass houses .
This is why pursuing Assange is futile and absurd .
Even if he is locked up forever , the world of the future is a WikiLeaks world .
Trying to convict him is like trying to convict the first person who installed a telephone .
In five years , every major institution could be held accountable by its own version of WikiLeaks - so that taxpayers , shareholders , members of university communities , and so on , can find out what the traditional gatekeepers prefer to hide .
When bullied , journalists can protect themselves only by fighting back - as a group .
And when a technology @-@ led change is inevitable , integrating it into an open society should be one of journalism &apos;s chief tasks .
But that mission now seems lost in America .
A Primer for Pandemics
A few times each year , the world is reminded that a pandemic threat is immanent .
In 2003 , it was SARS .
Today , it is a potential avian virus similar to the one that killed 30 million people after 1914 .
&quot; Bird flu &quot; has already shown that it can jump from fowl to humans , and now even to cats , which indicates that it might be the next global killer .
But there are many other potential pandemics , and many are not even viruses .
Bacteria , prions , parasites , and even environmental factors could suddenly change in a way that slays us .
It is widely predicted that when this happens , the economic and human losses will exceed that of any previous war .
Indeed , it is humbling to remember that some of history &apos;s most deadly invasions were carried out by single @-@ cell organisms , such as cholera , bubonic plague , and tuberculosis .
Countries with the resources to do so are making resistance plans against pandemics - limited strategies that would protect their own citizens .
Most governments are hoping that early detection will make containment possible .
Containment depends heavily on vaccines , but vaccines are only part of the answer .
While they are a good defense against many viruses , each vaccine is highly specific to the threat .
Viruses are parasites to cells , and each virus attacks a particular type of cell .
The virus is shaped so that it can drill into a particular feature of that cell and inject parts of itself inside , confusing the cell into making more viruses and destroying itself in the process .
With their very specific forms , the most effective anti @-@ viral vaccines must be designed for a narrow range of factors .
Sometimes the tailored nature of viruses works in our favor .
For example , they usually find it difficult to jump between species , because they would have to change their structure .
But if large numbers of a host - say , birds - encounter a great number of people , eventually the virus will find a way to prosper in a new type of cell .
Birds are the greatest concern today only because the spread is easy to see .
But AIDS jumped from monkeys and several types of flu jumped from swine .
Deadly mutations of any kind need to be identified urgently , so that an effective vaccine can be designed before the strain becomes comfortable in the human body .
Unfortunately our present methods of detection are not sensitive enough .
This is even more worrying when you realize that scientists should also be monitoring bacteria , prions , and parasites .
There are more bacteria than any other life form .
Many live harmlessly in our bodies and perform useful functions .
They evolve and adapt easily , which means that they learn to sidestep our drugs over time .
Bacteria should be checked for two types of mutation : adaptation by a hostile form that enables it to become super @-@ immune to drugs , or a deadly mutant strain that appears in one of the multitude of &quot; safe &quot; bacteria .
Prions are a relatively new discovery .
They are made from proteins similar to those that the body uses during healthy operations , which means that they are able to fool the body &apos;s tools into making more prions .
They have only recently been recognized as the cause of several infectious diseases , including mad cow disease and Creutzfeldt @-@ Jakob Disease , which kill by crowding out healthy brain cells .
Many nerve , respiratory and muscle diseases might also be caused by prions .
Finally , parasites , simple animals that infect us , are already classified as pandemics .
Malaria afflicts 300 million people and is the world &apos;s biggest killer of children .
Many parasites are worms : hookworm ( 800 million people infected ) , roundworm ( 1.5 billion ) , schistosomes ( 200 million ) , and the worm that causes Elephantiasis ( 150 million ) .
There are also antagonists that are currently ignored .
Environmental chemicals and particulates might warrant their own categories .
Or consider combinations of problems , such as these chemical infectors mixing with airborne pollens , and apparently pushing up incidences of asthma .
New fungal infections are even scarier and might be harder to treat .
The bottom line is that we can &apos;t predict where the threat will emerge , so we need a distributed , intelligent detection system .
In practical terms , how should it be built ?
&quot; Detectors &quot; would have to be expert enough to know when an ordinary @-@ looking symptom is actually an emergency .
They would be located everywhere , with an emphasis on vulnerable regions .
Initial warning signs of a pandemic are most likely to appear in the developing world , but detection nodes should be positioned in every country , with the least possible expense .
This is not as difficult as it sounds .
The key is to harness existing infrastructure .
Medical infrastructure exists everywhere , in some form .
It also tends to be the least corrupt of institutions in regions where that is a problem .
Medical centers and clinics would be expected to investigate the cause of ailments in a large number of their patients , even in cases where the symptoms seem common .
A small amount of additional scientific expertise and lab equipment would need to be added to a public health system that serves ordinary needs .
Enhancing existing resources would be effective for two reasons .
First , illness is more likely to be reported in a city hospital than at a specialist institute . Second , the investment would boost latent public health in that region .
For poor regions , investment in equipment and training would have to come from wealthier counterparts .
Rich countries could justify the expense in terms of the savings that would result from early detection of a major threat .
Tropical climates and urban slums are humanity &apos;s front line against pandemics , and they should be equipped properly .
Public health is an important asset for any nation .
With so much at stake , it makes sense to place sentinels near every swamp , city , public market , and farmyard on earth .
A Private Affair ?
Can a public figure have a private life ?
Recent events in three countries have highlighted the importance of this question .
In the French presidential election , both candidates tried to keep their domestic life separate from their campaign .
Ségolène Royal is not married to François Hollande , the father of her four children .
When asked whether they were a couple , Royal replied , &quot; Our lives belong to us . &quot; Similarly , in response to rumors that President @-@ elect Nicholas Sarkozy &apos;s wife had left him , a spokesman for Sarkozy said , &quot; That &apos;s a private matter . &quot;
The French have a long tradition of respecting the privacy of their politicians &quot; personal lives , and French public opinion is more broad @-@ minded than in the United States , where an unwed mother of four would have no chance of being nominated for the presidency by a major party .
Indeed , last month , Randall Tobias , the top foreign aid adviser in the US State Department , resigned after acknowledging that he had used an escort service described as providing &quot; high @-@ end erotic fantasy &quot; - although Tobias said he only had a massage .
In Britain , Lord John Browne , the chief executive who transformed BP from a second @-@ tier European oil company into a global giant , resigned after admitting he had lied in court about the circumstances in which he had met a gay companion ( apparently , he met him through a male escort agency ) .
In resigning , he said that he had always regarded his sexuality as a personal matter , and he was disappointed that a newspaper - The Mail on Sunday - had made it public .
Candidates for public office , and those holding high administrative or corporate positions , should be judged on their policies and performance , not on private acts that are irrelevant to how well they carry out , or will carry out , their public duties .
Sometimes , of course , the two overlap . The Mail on Sunday and its sister paper , The Daily Mail , justified their publication of revelations by Browne &apos;s former companion on the grounds that they include allegations that Browne had allowed him to use corporate resources for the benefit of his own private business .
The company denied that there was any substance to these allegations .
As the administrator of the US Agency for International Development , Tobias implemented the Bush administration &apos;s policy that requires organizations working against HIV / AIDS to condemn prostitution if they are to be eligible for US assistance .
That policy has been criticized for making it more difficult to assist sex workers who are at high risk of contracting and spreading HIV / AIDS .
Arguably , the public has an interest in knowing if those who implement such policies are themselves paying for sexual services .
Where there is no suggestion that a matter of personal morality has had an impact on the performance of a business executive or government official , we should respect that person &apos;s privacy .
But what about candidates for political leadership ?
Since politicians ask us to entrust them with sweeping powers , it can be argued that we should know as much as possible about their morality .
For example , we might reasonably ask whether they pay their fair share of taxes , or inquire about their charitable donations .
Such things tell us something about their concern for the public good .
Similarly , the revelation three years ago that the then @-@ Australian opposition leader and aspiring prime minister , Mark Latham , had assaulted a taxi driver and broken his arm in a dispute about a fare was relevant for those who believe that a nation &apos;s leader should be slow to anger .
But does the legitimate interest in knowing more about a politician extend to details about personal relations ?
It is hard to draw a line of principle around any area and determine if knowledge of it will provide relevant information about a politician &apos;s moral character .
The problem is that the media have an interest in publishing information that increases their audience , and personal information , especially of a sexual nature , will often do just that .
Even so , whether people choose to marry or not , whether they are heterosexual or homosexual , even whether they pay to fulfill their erotic fantasies or have fantasies they can fulfill at no cost , tells us little about whether they are good people who can be trusted with high office - unless , of course , they say one thing while doing another .
If we can cultivate a wider tolerance of human diversity , politicians , business leaders , and administrators would be less fearful of &quot; exposure , &quot; because they would realize that they have done nothing that they must hide .
Prostitution is illegal in most of the US , including Washington DC , and this could be one reason why Tobias had to resign .
But when New Jersey Governor John Corzine was involved in a serious road accident last month , it became known that he violated his own state &apos;s law by not wearing his seat belt .
By any sensible measure , Corzine &apos;s violation of the law was more serious than that of Tobias .
Laws requiring the wearing of seatbelts save many lives .
Laws prohibiting prostitution do no evident good at all , and may well do harm .
Yet no one suggested that Corzine should resign because of his foolish and illegal act .
In the US , at least , breaching sexual norms still brings with it a moral opprobrium that is unrelated to any real harm it may do .
A Putin Boom ?
MOSCOW : Vladimir Putin has more to celebrate than his election as Russia &apos;s president in his own right .
After a decade of horrific turmoil , Russia &apos;s economy is at last turning around .
Recently , the Moscow brokers Brunswick Warburg predicted that Russia &apos;s GDP will surge 5 % this year .
That growth should give President Putin - if he is patient and persistent - leeway to tackle the longer term reforms his country needs if it is to become the powerful state he seeks it to be .
Until now , a broad consensus forecast 1 @-@ 2 % growth in Russia this year .
The reason behind that uninspiring consensus is simple : people - economists and investors alike - have become so pessimistic about Russia that they no longer can see positive facts .
The conventional wisdom is that Russian industrial growth is only an effect of high oil prices and import substitution , facilitated by a great devaluation of the ruble .
Considering that Russia &apos;s growth was 3.2 % last year , a staggering 8.8 % in the last quarter , this makes little sense .
Growth , indeed , is accelerating .
Dynamism like this does not stop without a major shock .
Industrial growth was 8.1 % last year , and has accelerated since , to 14 % in February .
Oil and gas have not led the recovery ; indeed , they stagnated last year .
Major industries with 16 @-@ 22 % growth were chemicals , light manufacturing , pulp and paper , and machine building ; that is , intermediary goods and simple manufacturing , exactly the kind of industries economists like to see expanding at this stage of a recovery .
Within each industry , the best enterprises dash ahead , as should be the case when real restructuring is taking place .
Another tired argument is that Russia &apos;s growth is superficial and not generated by investment .
However , recovery in transition economies from Estonia to Poland to Hungary is usually export led .
Investments tend to follow recovery , as there is so much underutilized capital around .
Even so , investment actually increased by 6 % in 1999 and is rising further .
But the most over @-@ hyped argument concerns Russia &apos;s feeble tax collection .
But this obscures the real issue , which is excessive government expenditures .
Last year the government put its finances in order by cutting wasteful and corrupt expenditures , such as enterprise subsidies .
The total government budget deficit stopped at 1.7 % of GDP .
This year it will be nearly eliminated .
Barter and arrears ( ie , debts between factories and firms ) , long major concerns , are also diminishing .
Since the financial crash of August 1998 all kinds of arrears have fallen by two / thirds in real terms and barter by half .
One reason was that in 1999 almost 10,000 loss @-@ making Russian enterprises were put into bankruptcy .
The financial crash introduced hard budget constraints on Russian enterprises ; they realized they had to make money , prompting rapid monetization .
Today , we are seeing the structural changes that we had hoped to see years ago .
Russia is getting some return from the substantial structural reforms it has actually undertaken .
The last real worry was the foreign balance .
Russia has a substantial foreign debt service , but the recent London Club deal reduced Soviet @-@ era debt to commercial banks by half , easing the pressure mightily .
A similar deal is likely in the Paris Club for the regulation of debts to governments .
During the last few months Russia &apos;s international reserves have grown sharply , as one would expect of a country with a staggering trade surplus of $ 33 billion this year and which is likely to surge to over $ 40 billion this year . Of course , Russia is still hemorrhaging money .
But the cause of Russia &apos;s so @-@ called capital flight is a poor bank system and its dysfunctional tax system .
Fortunately , Russia now has such liberal currency regulations that Russians can keep their money in good international banks instead .
All of these changes mark the beginning of the end of the era of the oligarchs , ushered in with the presidential elections of 1996 .
Mr. Putin has no need for the oligarchs to provide him with media support to avert a communist threat or offer a conduit for covert state financing .
To him , Boris Berezovsky and his cronies are a nuisance ; most are already been broken to Putin &apos;s will .
Instead , a new group of Russian businessmen , mainly manufacturers , are rising .
Their increasing strength is a reflection of robust economic growth , which promotes production for the market rather than sheer redistribution of resources , implying a new sort of politics .
Last October , McKinsey Global Institute published a major empirical report of Russian industry .
Its conclusion was that Russia had real and human capital suitable to sustain a growth rate of 8 % a year , and that its problem was primarily the distortions imposed by a poorly functioning tax system and the absence of a land market .
However , neither the bank system nor the legal system were actually impediments at this stage of development .
They will become important as Russia moves to the next stage of growth , and so these new businessmen are demanding these reforms .
Mr. Putin is no great thinker or reformer , but he is astute and genuinely popular .
He is likely to surf on the current wave of economic growth , using broad consensus about the need for reform to clean up the state administration , and liberalize a tax regime which , though grossly inefficient , is heavy @-@ handed when it goes after a company .
Land reform remains so controversial he may shrink from addressing the issue .
My greatest worry is not Putin but that Russia will face an excessive inflow of foreign portfolio investment again , as in 1997 .
Fortunately , the bond markets are dead , and it might take a year to revive them .
Their absence makes it difficult to invest too large amounts of money in Russian securities .
Something fundamental has changed in the Russian economy .
A time comes when all disasters have occurred and all stupidities are recognized .
For Russia , August 1998 marked that dividing line .
It was a horrendous shock , imposing great social costs , but it changed Russia &apos;s mentality , not only the exchange rate .
A Race to Hunger
SYDNEY - Spectators at February &apos;s Daytona 500 in Florida were handed green flags to wave in celebration of the news that the race &apos;s stock cars now use gasoline with 15 % corn @-@ based ethanol .
It was the start of a season @-@ long television marketing campaign to sell the merits of biofuel to Americans .
On the surface , the self @-@ proclaimed &quot; greening of NASCAR &quot; ( National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing ) is merely a transparent ( and , one suspects , ill @-@ fated ) exercise in an environmental form of whitewashing for the sport - call it &quot; greenwashing . &quot;
But the partnership between a beloved American pastime and the biofuel lobby also marks the latest attempt to sway public opinion in favor of a truly irresponsible policy .
The United States spends about $ 6 billion a year on federal support for ethanol production through tax credits , tariffs , and other programs .
Thanks to this financial assistance , one @-@ sixth of the world &apos;s corn supply is burned in American cars .
That is enough corn to feed 350 million people for an entire year .
Government support of rapid growth in biofuel production has contributed to disarray in food production .
Indeed , as a result of official policy in the US and Europe , including aggressive production targets , biofuel consumed more than 6.5 % of global grain output and 8 % of the world &apos;s vegetable oil in 2010 , up from 2 % of grain supplies and virtually no vegetable oil in 2004 .
This year , after a particularly bad growing season , we see the results .
Global food prices are the highest they have been since the United Nations started tracking them in 1990 , pushed up largely by increases in the cost of corn .
Despite the strides made recently against malnutrition , millions more people will be undernourished than would have been the case in the absence of official support for biofuels .
We have been here before .
In 2007 and 2008 , the swift increase in biofuel production caused a food crisis that incited political instability and fueled malnutrition .
Developed countries did not learn .
Since 2008 , ethanol production has increased by 33 % .
Biofuels were initially championed by environmental campaigners as a silver bullet against global warming .
They started to change their minds as a stream of research showed that biofuels from most food crops did not significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions - and in many cases , caused forests to be destroyed to grow more food , creating more net carbon @-@ dioxide emissions than fossil fuels .
Some green activists supported mandates for biofuel , hoping they would pave the way for next @-@ generation ethanol , which would use non @-@ food plants .
That has not happened .
Today , it is difficult to find a single environmentalist who still backs the policy .
Even former US Vice President and Nobel laureate Al Gore - who once boasted of casting the deciding vote for ethanol support - calls the policy &quot; a mistake . &quot;
He now admits that he supported it because he &quot; had a certain fondness for the &#91; corn &#93; farmers in the state of Iowa &quot; - who , not coincidentally , were crucial to his 2000 presidential bid .
It is refreshing that Gore has now changed his view in line with the evidence .
But there is a wider lesson .
A chorus of voices from the left and right argue against continued government support for biofuel .
The problem , as Gore has put it , is that &quot; it &apos;s hard once such a program is put in place to deal with the lobbies that keep it going . &quot;
Politicians can &apos;t stop such rent @-@ seeking behavior .
What they can do is craft well @-@ considered policies that maximize social welfare .
Unfortunately , when it comes to policies marketed as reining in global warming , protecting the environment , or creating &quot; green jobs , &quot; we have a tendency to make hasty decisions that don &apos;t pass the test .
Government support for biofuel is only one example of a knee @-@ jerk &quot; green &quot; policy that creates lucrative opportunities for a self @-@ interested group of businesses but does very little to help the planet .
Consider the financial support afforded early @-@ generation renewable @-@ energy companies .
Germany led the world in putting up solar panels , funded by $ 75 billion in subsidies .
The result ?
Inefficient , uncompetitive solar technology sitting on rooftops in a fairly cloudy country , delivering a trivial 0.1 % of Germany &apos;s total energy supply , and postponing the effects of global warming by seven hours in 2100 .
Given the financial stakes , it is little wonder that alternative @-@ energy companies , &quot; green &quot; investment firms , and biofuel producers are lobbying hard for more government largesse , and marketing their cause directly to the public by highlighting its supposed benefits for the environment , energy security , and even employment - none of which withstand scrutiny . &quot; The NASCAR deal will push American ethanol into the stratosphere , &quot; declared Tom Buis , CEO of the ethanol trade association Growth Energy .
At least one group is already sold : presidential contenders .
In Iowa last month , possible Republican candidate Newt Gingrich derided &quot; big @-@ city attacks &quot; on ethanol subsidies .
And , in what must be music to the industry &apos;s ears , an Obama administration official declared that even amidst the highest food prices the world has seen , there is &quot; no reason to take the foot off the gas &quot; on biofuel .
In fact , there are millions of reasons - all of them suffering needlessly - to apply the brakes .
Immunization on the Front Line
MAPUTO - Most of the news one hears coming out of Mozambique is bad - poverty , disease , conflict , and floods .
But there are a lot of good things happening in my country , too .
In the past two decades , Mozambique has become a functioning democracy ; grown its agriculture sector ; raised literacy rates ; increased water supply and electricity in rural areas ; and reduced child mortality dramatically , from 219 per 1,000 live births in 1990 , two years before the civil war ended , to 135 per 1,000 in 2010 .
I am particularly proud of the last achievement , because , by working in partnership with my fellow Mozambicans to expand immunization coverage , I believe that I have played a part in bringing it about .
I grew up in Mozambique when the country was still under Portuguese rule , and the inequality in our colonial society shaped my view that all people have a right to health care .
I remember working at a pediatric ward as a teenager and watching children die from diseases like polio , measles , and tetanus - all easily prevented by vaccines .
The impact of that experience led me to spend the next 40 years working to ensure that every child in Mozambique , regardless of her ethnicity or where she lives , gets the vaccines that she needs to help her lead a long and healthy life .
In a few days , I will join 300 global leaders in Abu Dhabi for the world &apos;s first vaccine summit - a gathering dedicated to ensuring that all children everywhere have access to vaccines .
People like Bill Gates and Kofi Annan will make the case that immunization programs deserve adequate funding and political support .
I don &apos;t have an audience like Gates or Annan , but I would like to add my voice to theirs .
Millions of health workers like my colleagues and I make immunization their daily work . We have made tremendous strides in reaching more children with more vaccines , which is why more children are surviving than ever before .
But there are still even more children to save , and we need help to do our work on the ground .
Because vaccines are useless if parents refuse to give them to their children , a big part of my job is to collaborate with health workers , community leaders , school teachers , and local political figures to educate parents about vaccines .
But having the community &apos;s support is not enough .
It is also vital to ensure that vaccines get to the right place , at the right time , and in the right condition .
For example , in order to prevent shortages , VillageReach , the organization for which I work , helped to correct the population figures used to forecast the number of vaccines needed in each health center .
VillageReach also started a company that delivers propane gas to health centers in northern Mozambique , where , like in many of the country &apos;s rural areas , electricity is unreliable or completely unavailable to power the refrigerators that keep vaccines cool .
Through the use of propane , we can ensure that the vaccines do not spoil during the journey from manufacturer to mother and child . And once a month , we make sure that health workers deliver vaccines and other health services &quot; the last mile &quot; to mothers and children in remote rural areas .
Finally , I have learned that meticulous record @-@ keeping and measuring results is critical to reaching more children .
That is why we are assessing different methods for gathering data from the field , including the use of mobile applications to digitize paper records .
Building these routine immunization systems has already helped us to eradicate diseases like polio and all but one type of measles .
Earlier this month , we used them to vaccinate children against pneumonia for the first time in Mozambique &apos;s history , and we hope that next year we will begin to address rotavirus , which causes diarrhea and is the number one killer for children under five years old .
Our longer @-@ term goal is to strengthen these systems enough to reach all children in Mozambique with basic vaccines and other forms of health care .
I believe that we can achieve this goal , because I have witnessed how far we have come already , despite our struggles .
Big challenges lie ahead , but I am confident that with the support of the global community , I can leave to my own children and community a thriving country where every person has the opportunity to prosper .
A Recovery for All
NEW YORK - Over the last two years , the majority of countries in the world chose to expand public spending in order to buffer the impact of the global financial crisis on their economies and populations .
But , this year , with signs of economic recovery emerging , advanced countries have quickly shifted from fiscal stimulus to fiscal consolidation .
Now developing countries are also following the trend to consolidate .
A recent UNICEF survey of 126 countries shows that a significant number of low- and middle @-@ income countries are expected to reduce public expenditures in 2010 @-@ 2011 .
This comes at a bad time , just after world governments committed themselves to achieving the development goals , such as reducing poverty and infant mortality , agreed last September at the United Nations &quot; Millennium Summit .
For most low- and middle @-@ income countries , the incipient economic recovery appears to be fragile and uneven .
Indeed , many of these countries remain vulnerable to volatile commodity prices , financial @-@ system weaknesses , depressed demand from world markets , and shortfalls in external finance , overseas development assistance , and investment .
More importantly , according to the UN and the World Bank , the social impact of the global economic crisis continues to be felt in terms of rising hunger , unemployment , and social unrest .
The combination of rising food and fuel prices and the financial and economic crisis has reduced poor families &quot; purchasing power , access to social services , and employment opportunities .
Moreover , poor households have reduced food consumption , with the UN Food and Agricultural Organization estimating that nearly one billion people are hungry and malnourished .
In addition to the millions already pushed into poverty in 2008 @-@ 09 , another 64 million could fall into extreme poverty during 2010 as a result of the combined , lingering effects of the crisis .
In the 1980 &quot; s , adjustment programs required countries to cut back on their expenditures , including outlays on education , health , water , agriculture , and other sectors that make a difference to poor households .
As the late Tanzanian President Julius Nyerere demanded publicly : &quot; Must we starve our children to pay our debts ? &quot;
Infant mortality rates rose among low @-@ income groups in many developing countries , and inequality increased .
This period came to be known as the &quot; lost decade . &quot; UNICEF responded with Adjustment with a Human Face , which argued that children must be protected during economic crises .
It argued for more expansionary macroeconomic policies to generate employment , public @-@ sector investments to serve the poor , and the establishment of social @-@ protection systems .
Thirty years later , déjà vu , the same message applies .
The poor in developing countries are again being made to endure the worst consequences of a crisis that they played no part in creating .
It is critically important that this does not lead to a new lost decade of development , and that poor households - especially children - do not suffer as they did in the 1980 &quot; s .
And yet that could very well happen .
Our UNICEF survey of 126 developing countries found that among the nearly one @-@ half that are reducing public expenditures , common adjustment measures include public @-@ sector wage cuts or caps , withdrawal of food subsidies , and the targeting and rationalization of already meager social @-@ protection systems .
These adjustment measures are often adopted without carefully examining their social impact .
How many poor children will suffer - or die - from lack of food and health care ?
How many children will miss out on education because teachers are absent due to low wages , or simply because poor children must work to supplement their family income ?
Adjustment of public expenditures raises the risk of a recovery that discriminates against the poor , and thus fuels greater inequities in developing countries .
Premature fiscal contraction and / or withdrawal of countercyclical measures threaten the public support that is essential to promoting recovery among those hardest hit by the crisis .
As the global recession ebbs , the most urgent imperative is recovery for all - a recovery that is inclusive , expands employment opportunities , reduces inequalities , and sustains development processes .
This can be achieved .
It requires that aid to poor countries be sustained ; that governments focus on expansionary macroeconomic policies that support employment and broad @-@ based economic activities ; that new schemes be introduced to extend health services and social protection for the poor ; and that investments in education , water supply , sanitation , agriculture , and food security receive the support they need .
A Recovery Plan for Argentina
Argentina &apos;s president , Eduardo Duhalde , has been making impassioned pleas for international support to rebuild his country .
Argentina needs and deserves such help , and the foundations for economic success @-@ skills ( a literate and well @-@ educated population ) and institutions ( a federal constitutional democracy ) -have been in place for a long time .
But Mr Duhalde has yet to specify what must be done to take advantage of Argentina &apos; favorable endowments .
He does at least recognize that only Argentina is responsible for the bad policy choices that led to today &apos;s morass .
No one forced Argentina to adopt the currency board devised by Domingo Cavallo , the former economy minister , which pegged the peso to the dollar at a fixed exchange rate of one to one .
( The IMF , however , clearly should not have helped finance the currency board &apos;s operation without demanding fiscal adjustment when the country liberalized its foreign trade . )
As a result of the currency peg , Argentina &apos;s interest rates were largely determined in the US .
Lacking access to basic economic tools such as exchange rate and monetary policies , Argentina could not surmount the profound external shocks of the second half of the 1990s , when export prices fell , the US dollar appreciated , and Brazil , the country &apos;s main trading partner , devalued its currency .
The only alternative was severe fiscal austerity , for which the government never mustered the political will .
Argentina is now in a deep recession , with unemployment above 30 % , and a shattered banking and financial system .
Fiscal austerity and balanced budgets should be priorities in the longer term , but they are inappropriate now .
The first priority should be boosting employment to enable citizens to put food on the table and recover a basic sense of confidence in the future .
Otherwise , the country &apos;s impoverishment will continue to deplete its middle class and lead many young and capable professionals to emigrate .
It will also sustain unprecedented levels of violence and criminality @-@ another crucial dimension of today &apos;s insecurity .
To jump @-@ start the economy , the government must promote exports , particularly in the manufacturing and agro @-@ industrial sectors , as well as tourism and infrastructure construction projects .
After all , there can be no reliance on domestic consumption or private investment to turn the tide .
Higher exports will also generate the foreign exchange needed to resume external debt payments , now in default .
But Argentina &apos;s exporters will need help in returning to foreign markets , such as removal of tariff and non @-@ tariff trade barriers by rich countries .
The country has already shown that under favorable conditions its exports can compete and grow rapidly .
According to World Bank data , 32 % of Argentina &apos;s exports are manufactured goods , with roughly one @-@ quarter classified as high @-@ technology products .
From 1991 to 2001 , total exports grew from about $ 12 billion to $ 27 billion ( an average annual growth rate of about 8.5 % ) , despite the overvalued currency .
President Duhalde has specifically requested the help of the IMF , the World Bank , and the Inter @-@ American Development Bank .
Such assistance should be forthcoming , and in order to avoid bureaucratic overlap and turf conflicts , the responsibilities and priorities in dispensing it should be spelled out and agreed upon in advance by the government and these organizations .
Specifically , the IMF should be responsible for advice related to overall macroeconomic policy , as well as for assembling the financial package required to support the government while it implements its program of economic reactivation and reform of the financial sector .
The IMF should also provide technical and financial assistance to support a long @-@ term program aimed at redefining the fiscal responsibility of the central and provincial governments .
True fiscal decentralization must take hold if the central government is ever to regain full control of public finances .
The World Bank should provide technical and financial assistance to support a reorganized judiciary .
This must include making the appointment of federal and Supreme Court judges free from nepotism and political influence .
A shameful legacy of President Menem &apos;s government in the 1990s was that it prevented the investigation and prosecution of serious improprieties , corruption , illegal arms sales , and major terrorist acts .
Finally , the Inter @-@ American Development Bank should assist with programs designed to promote and finance industrial exports , as well as underwriting tourism projects .
These are areas in which the Bank has substantial experience in Latin America .
Argentina deserves the international support it is requesting .
At a time of deep recession , such support should not be made contingent on reaching unattainable fiscal objectives .
Fiscal consolidation should be a condition for the longer @-@ term aid that international organizations will have to provide .
But the first priority must be putting people back to work .
Addressing the glaring shortcomings in the country &apos;s judicial system should also be made a condition for support , both as an immediate and a long @-@ term objective . Under any economic circumstances , denial of justice , and poor implementation of the country &apos;s laws , must be remedied as quickly as possible .
For , at the most fundamental level , what is at stake in Argentina is not merely the health of the economy , but the quality of its civil society .
A Referendum For Kurdistan ?
The assassination of the President of Iraq &apos;s Governing Council makes it crystal clear that the US is failing to create the minimal law @-@ and @-@ order needed for any sort of orderly transfer of power to take place by June 30th . Barely two months ago , the signing of a constitutional document by a US @-@ appointed group of un @-@ elected Iraqi officials was heralded as if it were the re @-@ enactment of America &apos;s constitutional convention in Philadelphia in 1787 .
But by now it is clear that this is a worthless piece of paper .
No imposed constitution , however elegant it may be , will be very helpful to Coalition forces when confronted with the type of mayhem seen in towns like Fallujah or Najjaf .
In the Kurdish region of northern Iraq , however , the situation is completely different : in the last ten years , under the protection of the Allies &apos; no @-@ fly zone , and even more so since the toppling of Saddam , the Kurdish regional government has been able to establish and sustain a relatively orderly administration .
It has overcome tribal and party differences and created a de facto functioning government , with an impressive record on development issues such as education , irrigation , and construction - and , above all , with no violence .
Confronted with the debacle in the rest of ( Arab ) Iraq , the question has to be asked why the US @-@ led coalition should not hold a referendum in the Kurdish region , asking the population how they would like to be ruled .
After all , the Kurds have , by any internationally accepted standards , a right to self @-@ determination .
Historically , the Kurds - who are distinct in language , culture , and historical consciousness from Arabs - never had their day in court .
After World War I and the fall of the Ottoman Empire , the victorious Allies promised them a state of their own - a promise that was cynically betrayed when British and French imperial interests took precedence .
Since then , the Kurds have suffered under the despotic rule of rival ethnic groups .
There are obvious obstacles to holding such a referendum , primarily because the US does not have a mandate to dispose of Iraq as it pleases .
But the same goes for the rest of Iraq : the US is now lamely asking for a UN resolution mandating a transfer of power to a legitimate Iraqi government - but such an authorization is highly unlikely , nor is there anyone in Iraq to whom authority can conceivably be transferred .
Why should the one region - and people - who run an orderly government , are not involved in murder , attacks on mosques , and suicide bombing of schoolchildren , be penalized ?
Another objection is the opposition of Turkey - and , to a lesser degree , Iran and Syria - to granting the Iraqi Kurds self @-@ determination .
But if one thinks in terms of universal norms of human rights , what right has Turkey to dictate internal development in another country ?
After all , nobody accepts Israel &apos;s claim to oppose as a matter of principle the establishment of a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza .
The same should apply to Turkey .
If Turkey grants its own Kurdish minority more cultural and language rights and allows legitimate Kurdish political representation in the Turkish parliament , the willingness of Turkish Kurds to oppose Ankara will be diminished .
In the nineteenth century , the joint interests of the authoritarian Russian , German , and Austrian Empires prevented the establishment of a free Poland : such unholy alliances have no place in the twenty @-@ first century .
Recently , under the aegis of the UN , a referendum on the future of Cyprus was held within the island &apos;s Greek and Turkish communities .
The outcome was paradoxical , and not to the liking of those who initiated it : but the right of the communities to determine their future was accepted .
Why not in Iraqi Kurdistan ?
Perhaps to assuage political fears - and considerations of international law - any plebiscite in the Kurdish region should , initially , have only a consultative status .
But it will give legitimate expression to the will of a people long oppressed and entitled to their place in the sun .
Such a referendum may also concentrate minds among the Arab Sunnis and Shia in Iraq , when they come to realize that it is their violence that is dismantling Iraq .
Perhaps they may decide that violence is counter @-@ productive and carries its own penalties , and may then follow the Kurdish example of curbing violence , which would help put Iraq together again without recourse to permanent repression .
If not , at the very least , the injustice suffered by the Kurdish people for generations would , at long last , be rectified .
A Referendum on Obama
STANFORD - Successful political candidates try to implement the proposals on which they ran .
In the United States , President Barack Obama and the Democrats , controlling the House of Representatives and ( a filibuster @-@ proof ) Senate , had the power to do virtually anything they wanted in 2009 - and so they did .
Obama and his congressional allies enacted an $ 800 billion &quot; stimulus &quot; bill that was loaded with programs geared to key Democratic constituencies , such as environmentalists and public employees ; adopted a sweeping and highly unpopular health @-@ care reform ( whose constitutionality will be determined by the Supreme Court this year ) ; imposed vast new regulations on wide swaths of the economy ; embraced an industrial policy that selects certain companies for special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending at levels exceeded only in World War II ; and centralized power in Washington , DC ( and , within the federal government , in the executive branch and regulatory agencies ) .
The last election that was followed by such a sweeping change in policy direction occurred in 1980 , when President Ronald Reagan overhauled taxes , spending , and regulation , and supported the Federal Reserve &apos;s course of disinflation .
While the 1988 , 1992 , and 2000 elections were also quite consequential , the policy shifts were not nearly as large as in 1980 and 2008 .
The country rebelled against Obama and the Democrats &quot; lurch to the left with historic Congressional election victories for Republicans in 2010 .
Since then , many Republicans have been deeply disappointed that the House of Representatives has been unable to roll back much of Obama &apos;s agenda .
But the US political system is set up to make it much harder to accomplish something than to block it .
It is not easy to do a lot while controlling only one @-@ half of one @-@ third of the federal government .
The 2012 election is shaping up as a referendum on Obama &apos;s policies and performance .
The economy is improving slowly , but it remains in bad shape , with high unemployment and millions having left the labor force .
Republicans are expected to retain control of the House and regain a majority in the Senate .
Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney , the Republican frontrunner to challenge Obama in November , and the party &apos;s other leading candidates , including former House Speaker Newt Gingrich , want less spending , major reforms of government programs , lower taxes , trade expansion , and less and more @-@ targeted regulation than does Obama .
Romney , for example , has a detailed 59 @-@ point economic program , including a cap on federal spending at 20 % of GDP , which would require reductions similar to those in the 1980 &quot; s and 1990 &quot; s .
Gingrich and the other Republicans have an even more aggressive agenda of cutting taxes and reducing the size and scope of government .
The eventual nominee would be wise to incorporate his opponents &quot; best ideas and top people into his campaign .
A Republican presidential victory , together with Republican control of the House and Senate , would likely lead to substantial reduction , repeal , and replacement of many Obama initiatives , attempts to reform taxes and entitlements , and measures to impose greater fiscal discipline .
High on Romney &apos;s agenda is a reduction of the corporate @-@ tax rate , from 35 % to 25 % , the OECD average level ( the other Republican candidates would lower it still more ) , which would redress a major competitive disadvantage for American multinational companies &quot; global business .
A Republican victory would also most likely lead to a major push to open up many more energy @-@ exploration opportunities within America , which Obama has stymied .
Romney has promised tougher negotiations on trade and currency with China , but is generally far more likely to push new trade agreements than the labor @-@ supported Obama administration .
If , however , Democrats retain control of the Senate , this will be far more difficult to accomplish .
A Republican president also would make appointments to many key policymaking positions , from the Federal Reserve and the Treasury to regulatory agencies .
If Obama is re @-@ elected , and Republicans control the House and Senate , his legislative agenda will essentially be a dead letter , and he will spend the next two years , at least , negotiating its reform and rollback .
In this scenario , the policy center of gravity in the Republican party would shift to House Speaker John Boehner , the chairman of the House Budget Committee , Paul Ryan , House Majority Leader Eric Cantor , and other key Representatives , including David Camp , Kevin Brady , and Kevin McCarthy , along with several Senators .
In that case , Obama would be wise to move to the center ( as Bill Clinton did after the Democrats lost control of Congress in 1994 ) and work with congressional Republicans to shape sensible tax and entitlement reforms .
But that seems unlikely : since the Democrats &quot; massive defeat in 2010 , Obama has moved even further to the left , embracing a more populist agenda .
Regardless of the outcome of this year &apos;s presidential and congressional elections , various Republican state governors are likely to gain a higher national profile .
All of them - &amp; nbsp ; including Mitch Daniels of Indiana , Chris Christie of New Jersey , Bob McDonnell of Virginia , and former Governor Jeb Bush of Florida - declined to seek the Republican presidential nomination , but will be on the short list for 2016 should Obama win in November .
Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis famously described the states as &quot; laboratories &quot; : they should be allowed to experiment and learn from each other which policies work .
For example , Clinton and the Republican Congress based landmark 1996 welfare reform on policies originated by Wisconsin Governor Tommy Thompson and successfully emulated by New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani , both reformist Republicans .
The current cohort of Republican governors offers similarly innovative state @-@ level solutions - for example , on spending , debt , and unfunded pension and health liabilities - as models for the country .
Until November , divided government and contentious campaigning will most likely prevent significant policy moves .
But , following the election , taxes and spending , trade policy , federalism , regulation , and defense will take a different course - how different depends on who wins - with important implications for America &apos;s fiscal position , external balance , and much else , including its relations with the rest of the world .
America &apos;s Hope Against Hope
NEW YORK - After a hard @-@ fought election campaign , costing well in excess of $ 2 billion , it seems to many observers that not much has changed in American politics : Barack Obama is still President , the Republicans still control the House of Representatives , and the Democrats still have a majority in the Senate .
With America facing a &quot; fiscal cliff &quot; - automatic tax increases and spending cuts at the start of 2013 that will most likely drive the economy into recession unless bipartisan agreement on an alternative fiscal path is reached - could there be anything worse than continued political gridlock ?
In fact , the election had several salutary effects - beyond showing that unbridled corporate spending could not buy an election , and that demographic changes in the United States may doom Republican extremism .
The Republicans &quot; explicit campaign of disenfranchisement in some states - like Pennsylvania , where they tried to make it more difficult for African @-@ Americans and Latinos to register to vote - backfired : those whose rights were threatened were motivated to turn out and exercise them .
In Massachusetts , Elizabeth Warren , a Harvard law professor and tireless warrior for reforms to protect ordinary citizens from banks &quot; abusive practices , won a seat in the Senate .
Some of Mitt Romney &apos;s advisers seemed taken aback by Obama &apos;s victory : Wasn &apos;t the election supposed to be about economics ?
They were confident that Americans would forget how the Republicans &quot; deregulatory zeal had brought the economy to the brink of ruin , and that voters had not noticed how their intransigence in Congress had prevented more effective policies from being pursued in the wake of the 2008 crisis .
Voters , they assumed , would focus only on the current economic malaise .
The Republicans should not have been caught off @-@ guard by Americans &quot; interest in issues like disenfranchisement and gender equality .
While these issues strike at the core of a country &apos;s values - of what we mean by democracy and limits on government intrusion into individuals &quot; lives - they are also economic issues .
As I explain in my book The Price of Inequality , much of the rise in US economic inequality is attributable to a government in which the rich have disproportionate influence - &amp; amp ; and use that influence to entrench themselves .
Obviously , issues like reproductive rights and gay marriage have large economic consequences as well .
In terms of economic policy for the next four years , the main cause for post @-@ election celebration is that the US has avoided measures that would have pushed it closer to recession , increased inequality , imposed further hardship on the elderly , and impeded access to health care for millions of Americans .
Beyond that , here is what Americans should hope for : a strong &quot; jobs &quot; bill - based on investments in education , health care , technology , and infrastructure - that would stimulate the economy , restore growth , reduce unemployment , and generate tax revenues far in excess of its costs , thus improving the country &apos;s fiscal position .
They might also hope for a housing program that finally addresses America &apos;s foreclosure crisis .
A comprehensive program to increase economic opportunity and reduce inequality is also needed - its goal being to remove , within the next decade , America &apos;s distinction as the advanced country with the highest inequality and the least social mobility .
This implies , among other things , a fair tax system that is more progressive and eliminates the distortions and loopholes that allow speculators to pay taxes at a lower effective rate than those who work for a living , and that enable the rich to use the Cayman Islands to avoid paying their fair share .
America - and the world - would also benefit from a US energy policy that reduces reliance on imports not just by increasing domestic production , but also by cutting consumption , and that recognizes the risks posed by global warming .
Moreover , America &apos;s science and technology policy must reflect an understanding that long @-@ term increases in living standards depend upon productivity growth , which reflects technological progress that assumes a solid foundation of basic research .
Finally , the US needs a financial system that serves all of society , rather than operating as if it were an end in itself .
That means that the system &apos;s focus must shift from speculative and proprietary trading to lending and job creation , which implies reforms of financial @-@ sector regulation , and of anti @-@ trust and corporate @-@ governance laws , together with adequate enforcement to ensure that markets do not become rigged casinos .
Globalization has made all countries more interdependent , in turn requiring greater global cooperation .
We might hopethat America will show more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating for stronger international regulation , a global reserve system , and better ways to restructure sovereign debt ; in addressing global warming ; in democratizing the international economic institutions ; and in providing assistance to poorer countries .
Americans should hope for all of this , though I am not sanguine that they will get much of it . &amp; amp ; More likely , America will muddle through - here another little program for struggling students and homeowners , there the end of the Bush tax cuts for millionaires , but no wholesale tax reform , serious cutbacks in defense spending , or significant progress on global warming .
With the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , America &apos;s continuing malaise does not bode well for global growth .
Even worse , in the absence of strong American leadership , longstanding global problems - from climate change to urgently needed reforms of the international monetary system - will continue to fester .
Nonetheless , we should be grateful : it is better to be standing still than it is to be heading in the wrong direction .
A Relationship Strengthened by Crisis
NEW YORK - In recent years , emerging @-@ market countries , including those in Asia , have made impressive strides in strengthening their fundamentals , accelerating their economic growth and cushioning themselves against external shocks .
Nevertheless , as the events of recent months have shown , emerging markets are not immune from the current bout of global financial turmoil .
In particular , slowing global economic demand poses daunting challenges for many Asian economies , especially those that are more dependent on export @-@ led growth .
While most Asian countries have had relatively limited direct exposure to mortgage @-@ related assets , deleveraging by foreign investors and slowing external demand have simultaneously created tighter credit conditions and lower expectations for growth .
This has led to heightened volatility in equity , money , and debt markets .
These developments put to rest the notion of &quot; decoupling , &quot; the idea that economic growth in emerging markets , whether in Asia or elsewhere , is independent from that of the developed world .
As the current crisis makes painfully clear , in this era of global trade and investment , our economies − and our prosperity − are inextricably linked .
In order to maintain strong economic growth in America , we need a strong , growing Asia , just as Asia &apos;s success depends on a thriving US .
The US @-@ Asia economic partnership can be strengthened if we heed the lessons that we have already learned from the ongoing turmoil .
Undoubtedly , much of the current situation will be best understood with the benefit of time , but five lessons are already coming into focus , and we should consider their implications for the choices policymakers will make in the future .
First , openness to international trade and investment has been and will continue to be the linchpin of economic growth for the global economy .
The US and Asia are more mutually dependent than ever for their economic growth and prosperity .
In the current climate of anxiety and uncertainty , policymakers must ensure strong communication and coordination , avoid beggar @-@ thy @-@ neighbor policies , and guard against protectionism .
Fortunately , as the crisis has worsened , global policymakers have responded with coordinated policy action .
The G @-@ 7 action plan aims to restore the flow of credit by securing interbank lending , and coordinated central bank actions have provided unprecedented levels of liquidity to the market .
Bilaterally , the Strategic Economic Dialogue ( SED ) , which has been an invaluable forum for building US @-@ China economic relations , has been especially important in strengthening our lines of communication and cooperation during the crisis .
And many policymakers around the world have reaffirmed their commitment to completing a successful Doha trade round and refraining from raising new barriers to trade and investment .
Second , it is also clear that developed countries must act rapidly and in concert to minimize the impact of the crisis on emerging markets .
As is always the case , however , resources alone cannot solve problems rooted in weak policies .
Before we provide financial assistance , whether bilaterally or through the international financial institutions ( IFIs ) , we must determine the underlying cause of economic vulnerability and ensure necessary corrective action .
Lending large sums before assessing root causes and determining appropriate policy responses can undermine the IFIs &quot; credibility and reduce the capital available to assist other countries in need .
When resources are needed , however , the IFIs are a logical place to turn , and they must show flexibility and adaptability to help their member countries .
Both the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have taken encouraging steps to develop new programs and approaches and quickly increase their commitments .
The IMF recently established the Short @-@ Term Liquidity Facility to help strong @-@ performing members facing temporary liquidity problems .
The World Bank and the multilateral development banks are also developing innovative ways to strengthen country financial sectors and address potential shortfalls in trade finance .
Third , as the IFIs play an even more crucial role , further delay in reforming them to include major emerging @-@ market economies will only harm their effectiveness and legitimacy .
But greater representation is not a one @-@ way street : with greater voice and influence , emerging @-@ market countries must assume greater leadership responsibilities and act as constructive partners in these institutions .
Fourth , governments and the IFIs cannot solve this crisis alone , and they cannot and should not crowd out the private sector .
In situations where government intervention is necessary , we must consider specific ways in which the private sector can assist in the recovery .
For example , the US has helped promote financial @-@ sector stability with direct capital injections , but ultimately it is the banks that must resume responsible lending to consumers and businesses .
Moreover , the US Treasury has structured its Capital Purchase Program with disincentives for long @-@ term government ownership .
Finally , both Asia and the US must remain focused on addressing the fundamental macroeconomic policy challenges that contributed to the crisis .
Some of these challenges , such as the buildup of global imbalances , have been discussed for many years .
The turmoil has led to a gradual rebalancing , with the US current @-@ account deficit beginning to narrow and emerging markets taking steps to boost domestic demand .
But we must guard against the re @-@ emergence of significant imbalances , which means , in part , assuring the exchange @-@ rate flexibility that must play a critical role in allowing needed economic adjustments to occur .
Many of the important steps taken to stabilize the global financial system and economy , as well as to address the root causes of this crisis , will be achieved through the G @-@ 20 .
It is also clear that the US and Asia will be at the center of any effective multilateral action .
We must therefore seek to enhance our cooperation and leverage our regional , multilateral , and bilateral dialogues and relationships to ensure the integrity and efficacy of these efforts .
The road ahead will not be easy , but the US @-@ Asia economic partnership will be at the heart of our recovery .
And our economic relationship will no doubt emerge even stronger as a consequence of weathering this storm together .
A Reset in the Caucasus
YEREVAN - Will Turkey &apos;s current turmoil between Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and the country &apos;s powerful army complicate and delay the country &apos;s boldest initiatives in years - the moves to address decades @-@ old tensions with both Armenians and Kurds ?
Restructuring the role of Turkey &apos;s army is vital , but if Turkey cannot follow through with the Armenian and Kurdish openings , the country &apos;s own domestic situation , its relations with the two peoples , as well as tensions in the Caucasus , will undoubtedly worsen .
Of the several flashpoints in the region , including that between Georgia and Russia over South Ossetia and Abkhazia , the tension between Armenians and Azerbaijan over Nagorno @-@ Karabakh is among the most challenging .
As to Georgia and Russia , the disproportionate size , weight , and power on one side are enough to deter any return to violence .
Moreover , there are no entangling alliances complicating the matter .
Georgia is not a NATO member , and the United States , it is clear , will not go to war with Russia over Georgia .
The Armenian @-@ Azerbaijani struggle is more precarious .
It is no longer a two @-@ way tug @-@ of @-@ war between two small post @-@ Soviet republics , but part of an Armenia @-@ Turkey @-@ Azerbaijan triangle .
This triangle is the direct consequence of the process of normalization between Armenia and Turkey , which began when both countries &quot; presidents met at a football game .
That process now hinges on protocols for establishing diplomatic relations that have been signed by both governments but unratified by either parliament .
Completing the process depends directly and indirectly on how Armenians and Azerbaijan work to resolve the Nagorno @-@ Karabakh conflict .
This snarled three @-@ way dispute , if not carefully untangled , holds many dangers .
Turkey , which for nearly two decades has proclaimed its support for Azerbaijan , publicly conditioned rapprochement with Armenia on Armenian concessions to Azerbaijan .
Turkey , a NATO member , is thus a party to this conflict now , and any military flare @-@ up between Armenians and Azerbaijanis might draw it in - possibly triggering Russia &apos;s involvement , either through its bilateral commitments to Armenia , or through the Collective Security Treaty Organization , of which Armenia and Russia are members .
Given energy @-@ security concerns , any Azerbaijani conflict would also seriously affect Europe .
Iran , too would be affected , since it is a frontline state with interests in the region .
Armenians and Azerbaijanis have not clashed militarily for more than a decade and a half . But this is only because there has been the perception of a military balance and a hope that ongoing negotiations would succeed .
Today , both factors have changed .
The perception of military parity has altered .
With Azerbaijan having spent extravagantly on armaments in recent years it may now have convinced itself that it now holds the upper hand .
At the same time , there is less hope in negotiations , which appear to be stalled , largely because they have been linked to the Armenia @-@ Turkey process , which also seems to be in limbo .
The diplomatic protocols awaiting ratification by the two countries &quot; parliaments have fallen victim to miscalculations on both sides .
The Armenians came to believe that Turkey would find a way to reconcile Azerbaijan &apos;s interests with the Turkish opening to Armenia , and would open the border with Armenia regardless of progress on resolving the Nagorno @-@ Karabakh issue . The problem is that Turkey initially closed the border precisely because of Nagorno @-@ Karabakh , rather than any bilateral issue .
Turkey believed that by signing protocols with Armenia and clearly indicating its readiness to open the border , the Armenians could somehow be cajoled or pressured into resolving the Nagorno @-@ Karabakh problem more quickly or cede territories surrounding Nagorno @-@ Karabakh .
But this has always been unlikely in the absence of a comprehensive settlement that addresses Armenians &quot; greatest fear - security - and fulfils their basic political requirement , namely a definition of Nagorno @-@ Karabakh &apos;s status .
Both sides seem to be somewhat surprised by the other &apos;s expectations . Indeed , there is a growing fear that a settlement of the Nagorno @-@ Karabakh dispute is more distant now , because Turkey &apos;s public backing has raised Azerbaijan &apos;s expectations , while some Armenians fear collusion between neighbors out to railroad them into an unsustainable agreement .
This is Turkey &apos;s moment of truth .
The Armenia @-@ Turkey diplomatic process has stalled , and the Turkish government &apos;s effort at reconciliation with the country &apos;s large Kurdish minority has soured .
Just as a loss of confidence among Kurds and Turks in eastern Turkey will rock the shaky stability that they have recently enjoyed , a loss of hope for a settlement of the Nagorno @-@ Karabakh dispute may end the tentative military calm between Armenians and Azerbaijanis
But the situation is not irretrievable . Endless public sparring between Turkish and Armenian officials through the media is not helping .
It is time for both countries &quot; leaders to speak privately and directly with each other , with an understanding of the instability that could result from any failure to complete the diplomatic opening that the two sides initiated .
So , even as Turkey tries to deal with the consequences of its history at home , and redefine the army &apos;s role in society , it must reset its tortured relationship with Armenia .
The recent resolution passed by the Foreign Relations Committee of the US Congress , which called
The two sides must step back , look at the situation dispassionately , acknowledge the deficiencies in the protocols , address the other side &apos;s minimum requirements , and bear in mind that a single document will not heal all wounds or wipe out all fears .
The international community must support this effort .
The problem should not be dismissed as a mere settling of old scores .
What is at stake is the future of a region critical to Eurasia &apos;s peace .
A Return to Reason
COPENHAGEN - Common sense was an early loser in the scorching battle over the reality of man @-@ made global warming .
For nearly 20 years , one group of activists argued - in the face of ever @-@ mounting evidence - that global warming was a fabrication .
Their opponents , meanwhile , exaggerated the phenomenon &apos;s likely impact - and , as a consequence , dogmatically fixated on drastic , short @-@ term carbon cuts as the only solution , despite overwhelming evidence that such cuts would be cripplingly expensive and woefully ineffective .
This scientific pie fight , characterized by juvenile name @-@ calling , ignoble tactics , and intellectual intransigence on both sides , not only left the public confused and scared ; it undermined the efforts of the most important organizations working on advancing the science of climate change .
Almost inevitably , at international summits from Kyoto to Copenhagen , governments failed to take any meaningful action on global warming .
Fortunately , there finally seems to be a growing number of influential scientists , economists , and politicians who represent a more sensible approach to the issue .
As I argued in my 2007 book Cool It , the most rational response to global warming is to make alternative energy technologies so cheap that the whole world can afford them .
In broad strokes , this requires a deliberate and significant boost to research and development spending .
Based on recent work by Isabel Galiana and Chris Green of McGill University , I advocate expenditure totaling around 0.2 % of global GDP - roughly $ 100 billion a year .
Of course , no fix to global warming will work overnight .
So we need to focus more on adapting to the effects of global warming - for example , by stepping up efforts to cope with inland flooding and the urban &quot; heat island &quot; effect .
At the same time , we should explore the practicality of climate engineering , which we may need to buy more time for a smooth transition away from fossil fuels .
Acknowledging that man @-@ made climate change is real , but arguing that carbon cuts are not the answer , amounts to staking out a middle ground in the global warming debate - which means being attacked from both sides .
For so @-@ called &quot; alarmists , &quot; pointing out what &apos;s wrong with drastic carbon cuts is somehow tantamount to denying the reality of climate change , while so @-@ called &quot; deniers &quot; lambast anyone who accepts the scientific evidence supporting this &quot; mythical &quot; problem .
Nevertheless , there are encouraging signs that the minority of sensible voices in this debate are beginning to get the attention they deserve .
In mid @-@ 2009 , as part of a project by the Copenhagen Consensus Center to assess different responses to global warming , Green and Galiana performed a cost @-@ benefit analysis of R &amp; amp ; D spending on green technologies .
Green , a long @-@ time proponent of a technology @-@ led response to global warming , demonstrated the effectiveness of a policy of government investment in R &amp; amp ; D aimed at developing new low @-@ carbon technologies , making current technologies cheaper and more effective , and expanding energy @-@ related infrastructure such as smart grids . As Green and Galiana bluntly noted , &quot; No approach to climate stabilization will work without an energy technology revolution . &quot;
Another academic who has advocated a smarter response to global warming is Roger Pielke , Jr. of the University of Colorado , the author of this year &apos;s must @-@ read global @-@ warming book The Climate Fix .
Along with Green , Pielke was one of 14 noted academics who co @-@ wrote February &apos;s &quot; Hartwell Paper , &quot; commissioned by the London School of Economics and the University of Oxford .
The paper made the case for developing alternatives to fossil fuels , ensuring that economic development doesn &apos;t wreak environmental havoc , and recognizing the importance of adaptation to climate change .
In the US , we witnessed an equally promising development in the climate debate just last month , when the conservative American Enterprise Institute , the liberal Brookings Institution , and the centrist Breakthrough Institute teamed up to publish a report that called for revamping America &apos;s energy system with the aim of making clean energy cheap .
Entitled &quot; Post @-@ Partisan Power , &quot; the report comprehensively and convincingly argues that the US government should invest roughly $ 25 billion per year ( about 0.2 % of America &apos;s GDP ) in low @-@ carbon military procurement , R &amp; amp ; D , and a new network of university @-@ private sector innovation hubs to create an &quot; energy revolution . &quot;
This sensible proposal predictably drew fire from committed &quot; alarmists &quot; and &quot; deniers . &quot;
But , promisingly - and surprisingly , given the somewhat toxic state of US politics - it attracted broad support and intelligent commentary from many mainstream pundits .
Adding to the swell of voices , November will see the documentary film based on my book &quot; Cool It &quot; released in the US .
It is too early to suggest that politicians might make real progress toward implementing genuinely effective policies on climate change .
But , given the dearth of common sense in recent years , the mere fact that a growing chorus of reasonable voices can now be heard is nothing short of miraculous .
A Rio Report Card
NEW YORK - One of the world &apos;s pre @-@ eminent scientific publications , Nature , has just issued a scathing report card in advance of next week &apos;s Rio + 20 summit on sustainable development .
The grades for implementation of the three great treaties signed at the first Rio Earth Summit in 1992 were as follows : Climate Change - F ; Biological Diversity - F ; and Combating Desertification - F. Can humanity still avoid getting itself expelled ?
We have known for at least a generation that the world needs a course correction .
Instead of powering the world economy with fossil fuels , we need to mobilize much greater use of low @-@ carbon alternatives such as wind , solar , and geothermal power .
Instead of hunting , fishing , and clearing land without regard for the impact on other species , we need to pace our agricultural production , fishing , and logging in line with the environment &apos;s carrying capacity .
Instead of leaving the world &apos;s most vulnerable people without access to family planning , education , and basic health care , we need to end extreme poverty and reduce the soaring fertility rates that persist in the poorest parts of the world .
In short , we need to recognize that with seven billion people today , and nine billion by mid @-@ century , all inter @-@ connected in a high @-@ tech , energy @-@ intensive global economy , our collective capacity to destroy the planet &apos;s life @-@ support systems is unprecedented .
Yet the consequences of our individual actions are typically so far removed from our daily awareness that we can go right over the cliff without even knowing it .
When we power our computers and lights , we are unaware of the carbon emissions that result .
When we eat our meals , we are unaware of the deforestation that has resulted from unsustainable farming .
And when billions of our actions combine to create famines and floods halfway around the world , afflicting the poorest people in drought @-@ prone Mali and Kenya , few of us are even dimly aware of the dangerous snares of global interconnectedness .
Twenty years ago , the world tried to address these realities through treaties and international law .
The agreements that emerged in 1992 at the first Rio summit were good ones : thoughtful , far @-@ sighted , public @-@ spirited , and focused on global priorities .
Yet they have not saved us .
Those treaties lived in the shadow of our daily politics , imaginations , and media cycles . &amp; nbsp ; Diplomats trudged off to conferences year after year to implement them , but the main results were neglect , delay , and bickering over legalities .
Twenty years on , we have only three failing grades to show for our efforts .
Is there a different way ?
The path through international law engages lawyers and diplomats , but not the engineers , scientists , and community leaders on the front lines of sustainable development .
It is littered with technical arcana about monitoring , binding obligations , annex @-@ I and non @-@ annex @-@ I countries , and thousands of other legalisms , but has failed to give humanity the language to discuss our own survival .
We have thousands of documents but a failure to speak plainly to one other .
Do we want to save ourselves and our children ?
Why didn &apos;t we say so ?
At Rio + 20 we will have to say so , clearly , decisively , and in a way that leads to problem @-@ solving and action , not to bickering and defensiveness .
Since politicians follow public opinion rather than lead it , it must be the public itself that demands its own survival , not elected officials who are somehow supposed to save us despite ourselves .
There are few heroes in politics ; waiting for the politicians would be to wait too long .
The most important outcome in Rio , therefore , will not be a new treaty , binding clause , or political commitment . It will be a global call to action .
Around the world , the cry is rising to put sustainable development at the center of global thinking and action , especially to help young people to solve the triple @-@ bottom @-@ line challenge - economic well @-@ being , environmental sustainability , and social inclusion - that will define their era . &amp; nbsp ; Rio + 20 can help them to do it .
Rather than a new treaty , let us adopt at Rio + 20 a set of Sustainable Development Goals , or SDGs , that will inspire a generation to act .
Just as the Millennium Development Goals opened our eyes to extreme poverty and promoted unprecedented global action to fight AIDS , tuberculosis , and malaria , the SDGs can open the eyes of today &apos;s youth to climate change , biodiversity loss , and the disasters of desertification .
We can still make good on the three Rio treaties , by putting people at the forefront of the effort .
SDGs to end extreme poverty ; decarbonize the energy system ; slow population growth ; promote sustainable food supplies ; protect the oceans , forests , and drylands ; and redress the inequalities of our time can galvanize a generation &apos;s worth of problem @-@ solving . &amp; nbsp ; Engineers and technology wizards from Silicon Valley to São Paolo to Bangalore to Shanghai have world @-@ saving ideas up their sleeves .
Universities around the world are home to legions of students and faculty intent on solving practical problems in their communities and countries .
Businesses , at least the good ones , know that they can &apos;t flourish and motivate their workers and consumers unless they are part of the solution .
The world is poised to act .
Rio + 20 can help to unleash a generation of action .
There is still time , just barely , to turn the F &apos;s to A &apos;s , and to pass humanity &apos;s ultimate test .
Toward an Immunized World
ABU DHABI / NEW YORK - For a child , receiving a vaccine takes just a moment ( and perhaps a few tears ) .
But such moments are crucial for getting children off to a healthy start in life , and for advancing progress on global health and development goals .
Along with Mohamed bin Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan , Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi , we attach great importance to the world &apos;s first global summit , being held this week in Abu Dhabi , aimed at ensuring that all children have access to the full benefits of vaccines .
Vaccines protect people for a lifetime .
They are one of the most cost @-@ effective investments we can make to improve our world .
Vaccines have eradicated smallpox , pushed polio to the verge of eradication , and saved millions of children from measles , diphtheria , tetanus , and other deadly and disabling diseases .
Thanks in large part to the power of vaccines , the number of children dying before the age of five has fallen from 20 million in 1960 to 6.9 million in 2011 , despite a large increase in global population .
Disease saps the greatest asset that any country possesses : the energy and talent of its people .
This is an especially harsh loss for poor countries seeking to gain a foothold in the global economy .
But when children are healthy , families are freed from the burden of costly medical care , allowing them to spend more on food and education .
Healthy children attend school more regularly , are better able to learn , and become more productive adults .
New research shows that vaccines improve cognitive development in children , raise labor productivity , and contribute to a country &apos;s overall economic growth .
Yet more than 22 million children lack access to the basic vaccines that people in high @-@ income countries take for granted .
These children live in the poorest and most remote communities , where the risk of disease is highest . A child born in a low @-@ income country is 18 times more likely to die before reaching the age of five than a child in a high @-@ income country .
Ending this inequity is at the heart of history &apos;s largest and most successful anti @-@ poverty push - the Millennium Development Goals .
The eight MDGs were adopted in the year 2000 , when leaders meeting at the United Nations agreed to cut extreme poverty and hunger by half , fight disease , improve water safety and sanitation , expand education , and empower girls and women .
There have been remarkable gains , but there is still much to do - and fewer than 1,000 days of action left until the 2015 deadline .
Raising global immunization coverage will speed progress toward the MDGs and generate momentum toward a successful post @-@ 2015 development agenda .
The World Health Assembly , representing the World Health Organization &apos;s 194 member countries , has endorsed a shared vision - known as the Decade of Vaccines - of a world free from vaccine @-@ preventable diseases , with the full benefits of immunization reaching all people , regardless of who they are or where they live .
Eradicating polio will be a milestone on our path to realizing this vision .
With a new , comprehensive plan to be introduced at the Summit , the world will have a clear roadmap for creating a polio @-@ free world by 2018 .
The plan works hand in hand with our overall efforts to raise immunization coverage against other diseases like measles , pneumonia , and rotavirus .
Indeed , we are seeing how strong immunization systems protect our gains against polio and provide a platform for reaching the world &apos;s most vulnerable mothers and children with new vaccines and primary health care .
If we are successful , by the end of the decade we will save more than 20 million lives , prevent nearly one billion cases of illness , and save almost $ 12 billion in treatment costs alone .
And , in the process of freeing people from the burden of disease , we will unlock immeasurable human potential .
The MDGs and the Decade of Vaccines prove that focused global development objectives can make a profound difference .
They show the power of partnerships that bring together the United Nations , governments , development agencies , civil society , foundations , and the private sector .
Over the next 1,000 days and beyond , our progress will be measured by what we have done to improve the lives of the poorest and most vulnerable members of the human family .
Let us start by recommitting ourselves to realizing the shared vision of a world in which all children get a fair start in life with the protection of vaccines .
This generation will thank us - and so will many generations to come .
A Roadmap to Peace that Can Work
In the days after the so @-@ called &quot; Roadmap for Peace between Israel and Palestine &quot; was unveiled , a new cycle of violence exploded between the warring parties .
Palestinian suicide bombings and Israeli attacks against Palestinian leaders came with such speed and ferocity that determining who was striking first and who was counterattacking became impossible .
Of course , recriminations also began immediately , with Israelis and Palestinians each accusing the other of deliberately destroying the peace process .
The truth , as usual , is more complicated , and understanding it helps us to comprehend what will be needed if real peace is to be achieved .
There are at least four sides to this conflict : moderate and extremist Israelis and moderate and extremist Palestinians .
Complicated strategic interactions exist not only between Israelis and Palestinians , but also within the two sides .
The extremist positions are clear .
Extremist Palestinians vow to fight until Israel--viewed as a colonial imposition on the Islamic world--is destroyed .
Extremist Israelis vow to fight to hold the entire West Bank , pushing out the Palestinians if necessary .
For them , Israel &apos;s pre @-@ 1967 borders , the entire city of Jerusalem , and the West Bank of the Jordan River is land given to the Jewish people by God .
No land @-@ for @-@ peace deal will satisfy either side .
Large majorities on both sides--perhaps two @-@ thirds or even three @-@ fourths of each population--would accept a return by Israel to something like its pre @-@ 1967 borders in exchange for real peace .
Of course , moderates on both sides would prefer as much land and room to maneuver as possible , but they prefer a negotiated compromise aimed at ending the violence .
The moderates are understandably wary .
Compromise on their side if met by extremism on the other would incite disaster .
If Israel returns to its pre @-@ 1967 borders , only to find continuing hostility and terrorism among the Palestinians , Israel will have gravely weakened its security for nothing .
If Palestinians disarm but still confront Israeli demands to keep West Bank settlements , then Palestine will never have a viable state .
Compromise is therefore difficult even among moderates : it requires a belief that moderation on one side will be met by moderation on the other .
The Oslo Peace Process was built on the premise that moderates on both sides would gradually gain each other &apos;s trust and move steadily towards compromise .
But this largely ignored the role of extremists .
Israeli extremists assassinated Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin , lest he mobilize broad public support to make peace .
Arab extremists launched attacks against Israelis civilians , in part to show moderates on both sides that compromise would not stick .
That dynamic is still at work .
Palestinian Prime Minister Abu Mazen has called on Palestinian extremists to disarm , or at least to accept a prolonged cease @-@ fire , but they have responded with more terrorist attacks .
Israel &apos;s government , meanwhile , has gone out of its way to attack Palestinian hard @-@ line groups , causing more death , damage , and bitter feelings .
Extremists on both sides &quot; win &quot; their battle to undermine the peace process .
But all factions lose , because violence continues and none of them achieves its goals .
Israelis and Palestinians cannot find the way out alone , because neither side would dare to forcibly disarm its own extremists without absolute proof that the other side will do the same .
So it is fatuous for Israel &apos;s government to insist that the Palestinians disarm completely before the peace process can continue , when Palestinian moderates have no proof that Israel will withdraw to the pre @-@ 1967 boundaries .
In these circumstances , gradual confidence building will not work .
Extremists simply have enough power to undermine a process based on trust alone .
Nor will one side &apos;s extremists defeat the other side &apos;s extremists .
Israel &apos;s military has failed to destroy Palestinian terrorism through hard @-@ line reprisals ; Palestinian extremists have not scared Israeli hard @-@ liners into concessions .
A solution is possible only if the outside world is prepared to police an agreement reached between the moderate majorities .
A strong international peacekeeping force , agreed by the UN , and perhaps led by the US or NATO , must be placed between the warring sides , and must be prepared to suffer losses to terrorists in the service of peace .
The roadmap is--so far--silent on this issue .
When UN Secretary General Kofi Annan made such a proposal , extremists on both sides denounced the plan .
But moderates raised red flags , too .
Would a peacekeeping force truly serve the interests of the agreement , rather than one side or the other ?
Would it have the firepower to hold back extremists ?
Would it stick to its long @-@ term mission in the face of inevitable attacks ?
Would peacekeepers withdraw at one side &apos;s insistence ( as UN peacekeepers have retreated in other circumstances , including just before the 1967 Six Day War ) , putting the other side in jeopardy ?
The Roadmap to Peace can work only if both sides are pressed to a real compromise , whose outline is clear : Israel &apos;s return to something like its pre @-@ 1967 borders ; financial compensation of Palestinians for losses of land in Israel , rather than a right to return ; and Jerusalem as a shared capital .
But enforcement of this compromise against extremists will require putting credible and well @-@ armed international peacekeepers in place to hold the parties to the deal .
Designing such an international peacekeeping effort , one with the credibility and staying power , should now be a priority .
A Roosevelt Moment for America &apos;s Megabanks ?
WASHINGTON , DC - Just over a hundred years ago , the United States led the world in terms of rethinking how big business worked - and when the power of such firms should be constrained .
In retrospect , the breakthrough legislation - not just for the US , but also internationally - was the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890 .
The Dodd @-@ Frank Financial Reform Bill , which is about to pass the US Senate , does something similar - and long overdue - for banking .
Prior to 1890 , big business was widely regarded as more efficient and generally more modern than small business .
Most people saw the consolidation of smaller firms into fewer , large firms as a stabilizing development that rewarded success and allowed for further productive investment .
The creation of America as a major economic power , after all , was made possible by giant steel mills , integrated railway systems , and the mobilization of enormous energy reserves through such ventures as Standard Oil .
But ever @-@ bigger business also had a profound social impact , and here the ledger entries were not all in the positive column . The people who ran big business were often unscrupulous , and in some cases used their dominant market position to drive out their competitors - enabling the surviving firms subsequently to restrict supply and raise prices .
There was dominance , to be sure , in the local and regional markets of mid @-@ nineteenth @-@ century America , but nothing like what developed in the 50 years that followed .
Big business brought major productivity improvements , but it also increased the power of private companies to act in ways that were injurious to the broader marketplace - and to society .
The Sherman Act itself did not change this situation overnight , but , once President Theodore Roosevelt decided to take up the cause , it became a powerful tool that could be used to break up industrial and transportation monopolies .
By doing so , Roosevelt and those who followed in his footsteps shifted the consensus .
Roosevelt &apos;s first case , against Northern Securities in 1902 , was immensely controversial .
But the break @-@ up , a decade later , of Standard Oil - perhaps the most powerful company in the history of the world to that date - was seen by mainstream opinion as completely reasonable .
And the break @-@ up of Standard Oil took place in great American style : the company was split into more than 30 pieces , the shareholders did very well , and the Rockefeller family went on to rehabilitate itself in the eyes of the American public .
Why are these antitrust tools not used against today &apos;s megabanks , which have become so powerful that they can sway legislation and regulation massively in their favor , while also receiving generous taxpayer @-@ financed bailouts as needed ?
The answer is that the kind of power that big banks wield today is very different from what was imagined by the Sherman Act &apos;s drafters - or by the people who shaped its application in the early years of the twentieth century .
The banks do not have monopoly pricing power in the traditional sense , and their market share - at the national level - is lower than what would trigger an antitrust investigation in the non @-@ financial sectors .
Effective size caps on banks were imposed by the banking reforms of the 1930 &quot; s , and there was an effort to maintain such restrictions in the Riegle @-@ Neal Act of 1994 .
But all of these limitations fell by the wayside during the wholesale deregulation of the past 15 years .
Now , however , a new form of antitrust arrives - in the form of the Kanjorski Amendment , whose language was embedded in the Dodd @-@ Frank bill .
Once the bill becomes law , federal regulators will have the right and the responsibility to limit the scope of big banks and , as necessary , break them up when they pose a &quot; grave risk &quot; to financial stability .
This is not a theoretical possibility - such risks manifested themselves quite clearly in late 2008 and into early 2009 .
It remains uncertain , of course , whether the regulators would actually take such steps .
But , as Representative Paul Kanjorski , the main force behind the provision , recently put it , &quot; The key lesson of the last decade is that financial regulators must use their powers , rather than coddle industry interests . &quot;
And Kanjorski probably is right that not much would be required . &quot; If just one regulator uses these extraordinary powers &#91; to break up too @-@ big @-@ to @-@ fail banks &#93; just once , &quot; he says , &quot; it will send a powerful message , &quot; one that would &quot; significantly reform how all financial services firms behave forever more . &quot;
Regulators can do a great deal , but they need political direction from the highest level in order to make genuine progress .
Teddy Roosevelt , of course , preferred to &quot; Speak softly and carry a big stick . &quot;
The Kanjorski Amendment is a very big stick .
Who will pick it up ?
A Russian Dreyfus Affair
No secret file is being used to secure a guilty verdict .
The proceedings are held in open court , not in camera .
Yet the trial of Colonel Yuri Budanov in the city of Rostov @-@ on @-@ Don on charges of kidnapping , raping and murdering an 18 year old Chechen girl named Elsa Kungaeva contains echoes of the notorious Dreyfus affair that divided France a century ago .
At that time , the French army was licking its wounds from the defeat at Sedan and the creation of Bismarck &apos;s imperial Germany .
In the words of one of the French novelist Anatole France &apos;s characters in a novel written at the time , esteem for the army &quot; is all that is left of our glorious past .
It consoles us for the present and gives us hope of the future . &quot;
An exaggerated sense of lost glory helped incite the French Army to fake the evidence that convicted Captain Alfred Dreyfus of spying for the Kaiser .
Today &apos;s Russian army is not the bastion of reactionary monarchism and anti @-@ Semitism that shaped French officers &apos; behavior in the Dreyfus affair .
But the army &apos;s bitter resentiment at the demise of Russia &apos;s superpower status , reinforced by the military &apos;s own humiliating loss of resources and prestige , is no less evident .
The army &apos;s exalted , tormented , and wounded pride appears to be shaping both its response to Budanov &apos;s trial as well as that of President Vladimir Putin &apos;s Kremlin .
To Russia &apos;s officer corps , all opponents are ipso facto the army &apos;s enemies and , by extension , enemies of Russia .
Unlike their turn @-@ of @-@ the @-@ 19th @-@ century French counterparts , however , Russia &apos;s officer corps is essentially apolitical , despite decades of dictatorship .
Military officers are not overwhelmingly communist in their political leanings , not exclusively ethnic Russians , and not necessarily nationalists .
Some officers are all of these , and most are some of them .
But the army as a whole is not anti @-@ democratic .
It appears to have mostly learned its lesson about keeping out of politics , having been drawn into the coup against Mikhail Gorbachev in August , 1991 , only to switch sides when young officers and conscripts balked at carrying out orders .
Nevertheless , although President Putin is working to make it a more professional body than the Soviet @-@ era mass army , the officer corps retains a Bolshevik mind @-@ set barricaded against the intrusions of civilian criticism .
Poorly paid , slowly promoted , and often drearily garrisoned in Siberian towns , the army &apos;s sole recompense nowadays is prestige : the honors , immunities and cachet of a caste ; in short , the esteem in which it is held because of the victories over Napoleon and Hitler .
Colonel Budanov &apos;s trial challenges this ingrained sense of honor .
When the proceedings began a year ago , democratic Russia seemed to be catching up at long last with the civilized world in holding military officers accountable to the rule of law .
Russian liberals initially welcomed the Budanov case as a sign that the country might address accusations that war crimes were committed in Chechnya .
Last month , however , the military prosecutor accepted Colonel Budanov &apos;s argument that he was temporarily insane when he killed the girl , and so acquitted Budanov on the charge of murder .
( The rape charge , for some unclear reason , had already been dropped . )
The prosecution then began to speak of the young girl as a Chechen sniper , from a family of snipers .
Outraged , Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov dismissed the prosecutor , who seemed ready to acquit the patriotic &quot; hero &quot; on all remaining charges .
A new prosecutor revived the investigation , reinstated the charges , and balked at accepting a plea of not guilty due to insanity .
Ivanov , however , apparently intervened not because he feared a miscarriage of justice , but because the Kremlin hierarchy recognized that a verdict exonerating Budanov would leave the army itself vulnerable .
Critics would suggest that it had failed to control its men and might even have encouraged and abetted the savagery in Chechnya @-@ of which the charges against Colonel Budanov are but a small part .
So only a guilty verdict would suffice , but it still had to be qualified with a finding of insanity .
After all , no army can be held accountable for the murderous actions of an insane man .
No ordinary psychiatrist , however , attested to Budanov &apos;s alleged insanity .
Instead , he was evaluated by experts from Moscow &apos;s Serbsky Institute of Psychiatry , which became infamous in the Brezhnev era for treating dissent as a form of schizophrenia and subjecting &quot; patients &quot; like Vladimir Bukovsky to psychotropic drugs to help them recognize the glories of Soviet life .
The Serbsky team claimed that Colonel Budanov was temporarily insane at the time of the murder due to &quot; patriotic fervor . &quot;
As in the Dreyfus affair , Russia &apos;s army is increasingly a prisoner of its friends @-@ die hard communists , Great Russian chauvinists , ranting nationalists , and all the other anti @-@ reform and anti @-@ democratic groups who make defense of military honor a rallying cry for their own dark causes .
Indeed , the army &apos;s honor is now so firmly tied to finding Budanov both guilty
A Russian Spring ?
PARIS - Russia is not Egypt .
And Moscow is not on the eve of revolution as Cairo was less than a year ago .
Indeed , Russia &apos;s powerful have at their disposal assets that former Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak &apos;s regime lacked .
As an energy superpower , Russia can open its coffers to appease , at least in part , the humiliation that it has inflicted on its citizens by falsifying the country &apos;s recent legislative election results .
And not all Russians are in the streets .
We should beware of the &quot; zoom effect , &quot; which made many people believe that the young protesters of Cairo &apos;s Tahrir Square were fully representative of Egyptian society .
They were not .
Rural Egypt , like rural Russia , is much more conservative than the young elites who seize the world &apos;s imagination with their protests and embrace of modern social media .
Furthermore , Mubarak was old and sick , and no longer enjoyed the trust of his people .
Vladimir Putin , by contrast , exudes energy and health , and may still reassure many segments of Russian society whose main concern is their country &apos;s glory rather than its citizens &quot; happiness .
Yet Putin may be overplaying the macho card so excessively that it could backfire and contribute to his isolation from Russia &apos;s urban and more educated voters .
But , even if the tens of thousands of demonstrators are unlikely to threaten the survival of Putin &apos;s regime , the Kremlin would be wise to take them seriously .
The protesters &quot; trademark so far has been moderation and restraint ; nothing would be more dangerous than violent repression .
Beyond the issue of violence , the Russian authorities would take a huge historical risk by failing to register the public &apos;s growing alienation .
Sheltered physically and metaphorically by the Kremlin &apos;s high walls , and having progressively lost contact with the living conditions of ordinary people ( if they ever had any ) , Russia &apos;s leaders seem to consider their lifestyle to be both normal and eternal .
From the standpoint of condemning elite behavior , Russian protesters evoke , at least partly , the actors of the Arab revolution .
In their denunciation of &quot; Soviet electoral practices , &quot; they reject the combination of despotism and corruption that characterized Soviet power yesterday and Russian power today - rhetoric familiar from Arab revolutionaries .
As young Arabs told the rulers of Libya , Egypt , Tunisia , Syria , Yemen , and other Arab countries , this new generation of Russians is telling Putin : &quot; Get Out ! &quot;
But most participants hold few illusions about the efficacy of their protest . They want to express to Russia &apos;s rulers the extent of their frustration and determination .
They may not expect regime change , but they expect at least some minimal reforms .
Above all , they want to set limits on Putin &apos;s power .
But their protest &apos;s ironic consequence may be that the more moderate of the two figures at the summit of Russian politics , Dmitri Medvedev , will not return to the post of prime minister , as had been planned .
A game of political musical chairs would simply be too much in the eyes of too many Russians .
The protests have caught the Kremlin &apos;s masters , as well as the majority of Russia &apos;s citizens , by surprise .
They failed to recognize that globalization - particularly the global information revolution - has made the world more transparent and interdependent than ever .
The protesters of Madrid were inspired by those of Cairo , and were themselves a source of inspiration from New York to Tel Aviv - and , subsequently , to Moscow .
A lesson emerges : with the deepening of the economic crisis , on the one hand , and instant global connectivity , on the other , what was accepted yesterday is regarded as intolerable today .
That applies to Russia , too .
For a long time , Russia has perceived itself as a &quot; White Africa . &quot;
The average life expectancy of Russian men , slightly below 60 , is more African than European ( or even Asian , for the most part ) .
The corrupt enrichment of so many Russian elites mimics the disastrous habits of many of their African counterparts .
But this comparison has limits .
Despite its many problems , Africa today has become a continent of hope .
Its population is exploding , as are its economic @-@ growth rates .
Senegalese firms seek to help their Spanish business partners , while Portugal extends an almost royal welcome to the leaders of their former colony , newly oil @-@ rich Angola .
Africa is on the rise , while Russia is on the decline .
The democratic idealism that accompanied the fall of communism 20 years ago is gone , but the &quot; imperial pride &quot; recovered in part during the Putin years may not be enough to compensate for the contempt with which the Russian state treats its citizens .
Russia &apos;s demonstrators &quot; message is simple : &quot; Too much corruption , disdain , and inequality is too much . &quot; Russia , like the Arab world , wants modernity .
A Saudi Asks , \
A journalist visiting the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia recently asked me why five out of six students he interviewed at King Saud University still believe that Al Qaida was not responsible for the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon in America last year ?
Dealing with this question is increasingly frustrating for me , because I have run out of plausible explanations .
I used to believe that denial of Saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what happened on that dark day .
I hoped that we would have the courage to overcome our perceived humiliation and start looking deep into our national psyche , asking the big question , &quot; Why did 15 of our young men attack America in so brutal a way ? &quot;
So far , we are no closer than we were after the attack to answering to this question , because we cannot even find the nerve to ask it .
Had we been more confident and less full of bluster , we would have organized seminar after seminar to analyze what happened , to understand the reasons behind it , and to plan for a future without a similar tragedy .
After all , Osama bin Laden &apos;s hijacked planes not only attacked New York and Washington , they also attacked Islam as a faith and the values of tolerance and coexistence that it preaches .
But despite the enormity of what happened , we remain in denial .
We still cling to conspiracy theories even after bin Laden and his fellow conspirators bragged about their great &quot; achievement . &quot;
We continue to close our eyes to the fact that 19 young Muslim men decided to leave home , head for what they described as jihad , and became criminals .
It is past time to move forward .
We must admit that 15 Saudis helped perpetrate the attacks on America of last September 11
When Arabs , including Saudis , first fought in Afghanistan in the mid @-@ 1980s , their campaign was politically and religiously just .
Afghan Muslims were confronting foreign aggressors who sought to impose Soviet @-@ style communism upon them .
The Mujahideen were overseen by responsible clerics , who gave a shining example to Saudi youth .
Some of those young men remained in Afghanistan as Mujahideen entered Kabul to take part in the bitter infighting that led to the Taliban &apos;s rise .
Others returned home and were welcomed as heroes .
Were those young men who returned home then wiser than today &apos;s Saudi youth ?
What happened in the last ten years that allowed extremists to find so many eager followers ?
Since September 11
We must answer this question not for the Americans &apos; sake , but for our own .
It is not enough to say that the hijackers--and , indeed , the many Saudis being held at Guantanamo Bay--represent a subset of duped youngsters and that the rest of Saudi youth are different .
That is true , of course , but the damage that this relatively small group inflicted was monumental .
It is far better to try and understand their motives .
In our attempts to defend and justify ourselves over the past year , we Saudis learned about the consequences of extremism at Waco , Texas and Oklahoma City .
We wrote about the Michigan Militia and other American radical extremists .
Of course there is extremism in America--extremism as ugly as any that we have at home .
But the Americans studied and analyzed minutely the Waco and Oklahoma City incidents on their own .
The motives behind those attacks were examined in an effort to guarantee that such events would not recur .
We Saudis have failed to do the same .
The most pressing issue now is to ensure that our children are never influenced by extremist ideas like those that misled 15 of our countrymen into hijacking four planes that fine September day , piloting them , and us , straight into the jaws of hell .
A Saudi Survival Strategy
Did the bombings that rocked Riyadh shock the al @-@ Saud royal family from its complacency at long last ?
This rude interruption to their majesties &apos; indolence by their subjects incited rage and fury and something else--fear .
Of course , alarm bells have rung before in Saudi Arabia , but the ruling family remained in denial--deniability and repression being the political arts at which the al @-@ Saud excel .
If the regime is to forge a survival strategy , it must now re @-@ examine its foundations .
As ruling families go , the al @-@ Saud are spectacularly numerous--there are perhaps as many 22,000 of them .
But vast bloodlines have not prevented hardening of the arteries .
Indeed , the men now struggling to hold things together are the incapacitated King Fahd ( 84 years old ) , his half @-@ brother Crown Prince Abdullah ( 79 years old ) , and his full brothers , Defence Minister Sultan ( 78 years old ) , and Interior Minister Naif ( 75 years old ) .
Old men , unsurprisingly , find it hard to cope with the breakdown of the assumptions that have governed their entire lives .
Perhaps the most shattering lost illusion is the fact that the bombings occurred in the heart of the al @-@ Saud &apos;s home @-@ base in the Najdi region , which indicates that the enemy within resides nearer to the throne than anyone suspected .
This recognition is particularly unsettling because the al @-@ Saud have alienated every group except their own .
If some Najdi may now be mistrusted , where can the al @-@ Saud turn ?
Saudi Arabia &apos;s population is divided into distinctive regional , tribal , and sectarian groups .
To the east , in the oil @-@ rich province , are the Shia .
Politically emboldened since the fall of Saddam &apos;s regime and the resurgence of their brethren in Iraq , the Shia wasted no time in petitioning Crown Prince Abdullah to end both their exclusion from Saudi politics and their demonization as heretics by the Wahhabi religious establishment .
Their message to the rulers is that it will no longer suffice to identify being Saudi exclusively with being Wahhabi Najdi .
Meanwhile , the Hijazis , who originate in Mecca and Medina , hold long @-@ repressed resentments due to their humiliating partial inclusion in Saudi politics .
Although the Hijazis , who are Sunnis but not Wahhabis , are not viewed as heretics , they are marginalized because the Islam they practice has Sufi leanings--and tolerant Sufiism is anathema to the austerely dogmatic Wahhabis .
Educated Hijazis ask only for modest reforms .
Yet even moderation is dismissed by the al @-@ Saud .
The tribes of the Asir region , which have a mixed sense of identity due to their close ties to Yemeni tribes , feel alienated from both the political and the economic center .
The population of al @-@ Jawf in the north has a similar sense of political and economic alienation .
Despite long simmering feelings of resentment and dispossession , these &apos; minorities &apos; remain moderate in their demands for reform .
Their leaders want to rescue the state , not raze it .
They form the vast majority of people in Saudi Arabia , and have not yet embraced the uncompromising rage of Osama bin Laden &apos;s clones .
The challenge facing the al @-@ Saud is to include at the heart of the political system the peoples they have shunned for decades .
Unless they begin to do so , these peoples will drift into the camp of the fanatics--if not as active terrorists than as passive supporters , much as the Catholic community in Northern Ireland passively embraced IRA terrorism as a way to end their exclusion from political life in the province .
The danger in Saudi Arabia is that the IRA are no match for Muslim fundamentalists in their fanaticism .
For the regime to embrace peoples it has excluded , it must agree on inclusiveness--and the tolerance of non @-@ Wahhabi forms of Islam--as a survival strategy and stick to it .
This is difficult because the ruling al @-@ Saud are themselves divided .
Crown Prince Abdullah is far more disposed to reform than Prince Naif , the powerful Interior Minister , who clings to the old narrow system of repression .
The al @-@ Saud will undoubtedly be ruthless in seeking out the individuals directly implicated in the terrorist bombings .
Those captured face beheading in the traditional way .
The problem for the regime is that the springs that nourish fanaticism will not be dammed by such exemplary punishment .
Some royals recognize this and know that a more thorough housecleaning is needed .
They realize that the al @-@ Saud must choose : continue on the narrow path of repression and ethnic and religious intolerance , or adopt a more open and inclusive policy .
Both choices are fraught with danger : open up , and they include people in Saudi public life hitherto considered unworthy for being either heretics ( the Shia ) or of impure blood ( the Hejazis ) or too primitive ( the border tribes ) .
Remain closed , and they will find themselves hostage to the forces of intolerance that threaten the regime .
The al @-@ Saud religious alliance with the Wahhabis and the latter &apos;s control of a rigid religious educational system must change .
&quot; Moderate &quot; elements among the population will support this change ( and the manhunt for terrorist fanatics ) if they secure inclusion in Saudi life .
Alexis de Tocqueville warned that the most dangerous time for any authoritarian regime is when it reforms .
The al @-@ Saud have procrastinated so long that every choice they now face is risky .
Inclusion is the less dangerous path .
It puts at risk only the ethnically narrow and religiously intolerant structure of the regime .
By contrast , the regime itself will be imperiled if it clings to its narrow base .
A Security Strategy for the 21st Century
MADRID - &quot; Time and again in our Nation &apos;s history , Americans have risen to meet -and to shape - moments of transition .
This must be one of those moments . &quot; So begins the National Security Strategy of the United States of America , presented before Congress on May 27 .
As with the politics pursued in the Obama administration &apos;s 16 months of office - dialogue , international commitment , nuclear non @-@ proliferation and disarmament - the document &apos;s strength lies in the position that it takes .
The Security Strategy is a clear departure from that of its predecessor and offers a wider conception of what national security represents for US President Barack Obama .
In the face of the major challenges of our times , Obama has taken a stand with a comprehensive doctrine .
Indeed , the Security Strategy is almost a &quot; National &quot; Strategy .
Its thinking goes beyond the dominant , unilateral paradigm of its predecessor and includes a defense of international law .
This is particularly noteworthy , given that none of the great treaties to create an international criminal court and a permanent war @-@ crimes tribunal was signed by the US during George W. Bush &apos;s presidency .
Obama &apos;s approach to security is broader as well , proposing the &quot; three Ds &quot; - defense , diplomacy , and development - as indivisible parts of a whole .
The military dimension of intervention abroad loses its privileged role , making way for the prevention of conflict and for peace @-@ keeping and stabilization missions .
In the fight against terrorism , the Strategy abandons the predominantly military viewpoint underlying the war against terror , and embraces a more significant role for the intelligence services .
For the first time , precise reference is made to people liable to be a threat to US security .
The US is not waging a war against terrorism ; it is at &quot; war against a specific network , al Qaida , and its affiliates . &quot; In this war , information resources are particularly necessary .
In order to guarantee national security , the Strategy is categorical - without giving in to the temptation of isolationism - in admitting the strategic value of the example and the importance of doing one &apos;s homework first .
Obama steers clear both of interventions for humanitarian purposes and of attempting to export democracy by force .
There is no better way of exporting the values of democracy than by strengthening the US internally .
Thus , an economic policy that tackles America &apos;s debt and deficit makes up the main portion of the Strategy .
Backing competitive education , innovation , technology , energy , and a more efficient and accessible health @-@ care system complements and reinforces Obama &apos;s leadership approach of setting an example with one &apos;s own policies .
An important example is removing the US prison at Guantánamo Bay from international limbo - one of his first initiatives as president .
This approach does not have unanimous support among international experts .
The two main criticisms - lack of strategic clarity and less emphasis on the classical concepts of power - point to America &apos;s loss of influence , power , and leadership .
But these criticisms reflect an inability to contemplate the current nature of armed conflict , which no longer follows the classical logic of military victory or defeat .
The war in Afghanistan and the complex situation in Iraq have highlighted the importance of a comprehensive approach .
Military action cannot be considered the only variable of success .
A successful strategy should use civilian means - incidentally a model advocated by the European Union .
We are faced with forging a new long @-@ term policy that affects both states and societies .
That task requires patience and strategic perseverance .
Change will not occur from one day to the next , but the results obtained in the end will be better and more enduring .
Obama maintains the idea of service to a historical mission for the US : the important job of guaranteeing global security .
But , unlike his White House predecessors , Obama &apos;s National Security Strategy recognizes the value of partnerships ; attaches greater importance to the civilian dimension as opposed to the military ; and stresses the value of dialogue and the need to reinforce international institutions .
This is a good sign for a world with different power centers and interests , with resources and legitimacy remaining tied to the nation @-@ state , but in which challenges ( climate change , armed conflicts , pandemics , and transnational crime ) are global and , therefore , require cooperation among states .
We are in a transition period : international interconnection is increasing , as the global economic crisis has shown , but the management tools and mechanisms to guarantee the smooth operation of governments are still not being shared .
Obama &apos;s new National Security Strategy shows a political willingness to back an international order able to tackle these challenges .
The road ahead is not free of difficulties , but the Strategy represents a decisive step towards solving the challenges of the twenty @-@ first century and preparing us for the world of tomorrow .
A Seismic Crime
NEW YORK - Few people outside Italy are aware that six seismologists and a government official are on trial in the small city of L &apos;Aquila .
But the story has implications for scientists , engineers , administrators , and legal systems far beyond Italy &apos;s borders .
L &apos;Aquila was largely destroyed by earthquakes in 1461 and 1703 .
The city was rebuilt , eventually grew to more than 73,000 inhabitants , and remained stable for more than 300 years - until October 2008 , when tremors began again .
From January 1 through April 5 , 2009 , 304 additional tremors were reported .
Italy &apos;s National Commission for Prediction and Prevention of Major Risks , which comprised the seven men now on trial , met in L &apos;Aquila for one hour on March 31 , 2009 , to assess the earthquake swarms .
According to the minutes , Enzo Boschi , President of the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology , was asked if they were precursors to an earthquake resembling the one in 1703 .
He replied : &quot; It is unlikely that an earthquake like the one in 1703 could occur in the short term , but the possibility cannot be totally excluded . &quot;
On April 6 , 2009 , a 6.3 magnitude earthquake struck L &apos;Aquila and nearby towns , killing more than 300 people and injuring more than 1,500 .
The quake also destroyed roughly 20,000 buildings , temporarily displacing another 65,000 people .
More than a year later , in July 2010 , prosecutor Fabio Picuti charged the Commission members with manslaughter and negligence for failing to warn the public of the impending risk .
The trial began last September , and is expected to last for months , if not years .
After Picuti made the charges public in June 2010 , Alan Leshner , Executive Publisher of Science , sent an open letter of protest to Italian President Giorgio Napolitano on behalf of the American Association for the Advancement of Science .
He wrote that the &quot; charges against these scientists are both unfair and naïve .... &#91; T &#93; here is no accepted scientific method for earthquake prediction that can be reliably used to warn citizens of an impending disaster . &quot; The American Geophysical Union and thousands of other scientists also objected .
Picuti reportedly responded : &quot; I &apos;m not crazy . I know they can &apos;t predict earthquakes .
The basis of the charges is not that they didn &apos;t predict the earthquake .
As functionaries of the state , they had certain duties imposed by law : to evaluate and characterize the risks that were present in L &apos;Aquila . &quot;
In 1989 , a United States National Research Council report , Improving Risk Communication , recommended that one @-@ way communication from experts to non @-@ experts be replaced with an &quot; interactive process of exchange of information and opinion . &quot; The report suggested that risk communication is successful only if those involved are satisfied that they are adequately informed about the relevant issues , given the limits of available knowledge .
Yet such information exchange remains a problem - and not only in Italy - more than 20 years later .
The interactions between science , technology , and law are growing increasingly complex .
As science and technologies evolve , risk assessments and the dialogue between scientists and governments must adapt .
Both sides must continually determine , before disaster strikes , whether existing laws provide scientists and administrators with clear , realistic standards for their analyses and public communications . If they do not , the best qualified scientists and administrators might be frightened away .
In 2011 , the National Research Council and the US Federal Judicial Center issued the 1,016 @-@ page third edition of the Reference Manual on Scientific Evidence .
Although its purpose is to help judges and attorneys to understand the science from which legal evidence is derived , its index contains no entry for earthquakes .
Furthermore , the manual mentions risk communication only briefly , in the context of medical testimony .
Given such shortcomings , courses on science and engineering and their social applications should become part of the core training and continuing education of those in law , public administration , and official policymaking positions .
Legislators , prosecutors , and judges , in particular , need to understand what natural sciences , social sciences , and engineering can and cannot offer .
At the same time , natural scientists must become better educated to work effectively with engineers , public administrators , and social scientists ( for example , economists , demographers , and psychologists ) to communicate the consequences of scientific findings , especially when high risks are involved .
Those risks will not go away .
In February 2011 , almost 200 people died when a 6.3 @-@ magnitude earthquake struck Christchurch , New Zealand .
The following month , Japan &apos;s Tōhoku earthquake killed almost 16,000 people .
As the anniversary of that earthquake approaches on March 11 , Japanese researchers predicted in January 2012 that another major earthquake will strike the southern Kanto region , including Tokyo , by 2016 with 70 % probability .
The Big One will one day strike California .
Will we be ready ?
A Squandered Golden Opportunity
PALO ALTO - A group of multi @-@ national European scientists has used gene @-@ splicing techniques to create an extraordinary tomato .
It boasts a deep purple skin and flesh , and contains levels of antioxidants 200 % higher than unmodified tomatoes .
When fed to highly cancer @-@ susceptible mice , the tomatoes significantly extended the mice &apos;s lifespan .
These studies have received wide attention , but an equally momentous achievement of genetic modification has been largely ignored for almost a decade .
That innovation is &quot; Golden Rice , &quot; a collection of new rice varieties that is bio @-@ fortified , or enriched , by genes that express beta @-@ carotene , the precursor of vitamin A , which is converted in the body , as needed , to the active form .
Most physicians in North America and Europe never see a single case of vitamin A deficiency in their professional lifetimes .
But the situation is very different in poor countries , where vitamin A deficiency is epidemic among the poor , whose diet is heavily dominated by rice ( which contains neither beta @-@ carotene nor vitamin A ) or other carbohydrate @-@ rich , vitamin @-@ poor sources of calories .
In developing countries , 200 @-@ 300 million children of preschool age are at risk of vitamin A deficiency , which can be devastating and even fatal .
It increases susceptibility to common childhood infections such as measles and diarrheal diseases , and is the single most important cause of childhood blindness in developing countries .
Every year , about 500,000 children become blind as a result of vitamin A deficiency , and 70 % die within a year of losing their sight .
In theory , we could simply supplement children &apos;s diets with vitamin A in capsules , or add it to some staple foodstuff , the way that we add iodine to table salt to prevent hypothyroidism and goiter .
Unfortunately , neither the resources - hundreds of millions of dollars annually - nor the infrastructure for distribution are available .
Biotechnology offers a better , cheaper , and more feasible solution : Golden Rice , which incorporates beta @-@ carotene into the genetically altered rice grains .
The concept is simple .
Although rice plants do not normally synthesize beta @-@ carotene in the endosperm ( seeds ) , they do make it in the green portions of the plant .
By using gene @-@ splicing techniques to introduce the two genes that express these enzymes , the pathway is restored and the rice grains accumulate therapeutic amounts of beta @-@ carotene .
Golden Rice offers the potential to make contributions to human health and welfare as monumental as the discovery and distribution of the Salk polio vaccine .
With wide use , it could save hundreds of thousands of lives every year and enhance the quality of life for millions more .
But one aspect of this shining story is tarnished .
Intransigent opposition by anti @-@ science , anti @-@ technology activists - Greenpeace , Friends of the Earth , and a few other groups - has spurred already risk @-@ averse regulators to adopt an overly cautious approach that has stalled approvals .
There is absolutely nothing about Golden Rice that should require endless case @-@ by @-@ case reviews and bureaucratic dithering .
As the British journal Nature argued in 1992 , a broad scientific consensus holds that &quot; the same physical and biological laws govern the response of organisms modified by modern molecular and cellular methods and those produced by classical methods .... &#91; Therefore &#93; no conceptual distinction exists between genetic modification of plants and microorganisms by classical methods or by molecular techniques that modify DNA and transfer genes . &quot;
Put another way , government regulation of field research with plants should focus on the traits that may be related to risk - invasiveness , weediness , toxicity , and so forth - rather than on whether one or another technique of genetic manipulation was used .
Nine years after its creation , despite its vast potential to benefit humanity - and a negligible probability of harm to human health or the environment - Golden Rice remains hung up in regulatory red tape , with no end in sight .
( Cancer @-@ preventing tomatoes , take notice . )
By contrast , plants constructed with less precise techniques such as hybridization or mutagenesis generally are subject to no government scrutiny or requirements ( or opposition from activists ) at all .
That applies even to the numerous new plant varieties that have resulted from &quot; wide crosses , &quot; hybridizations that move genes from one species or genus to another - across what used to be considered natural breeding boundaries .
Judith Rodin , the president of the Rockefeller Foundation , announced last October that her organization will provide funding to the International Rice Research Institute to shepherd Golden Rice through national regulatory approval processes in Bangladesh , India , Indonesia , and the Philippines .
This is good news , but what is really needed is a multi @-@ faceted , aggressive reform of the regulatory process so that all new genetic constructions will have a chance to succeed .
In an April editorial in the journal Science , Nina Fedoroff , an eminent plant geneticist who serves as senior scientific advisor to US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice , wrote : &quot; A new Green Revolution demands a global commitment to creating a modern agricultural infrastructure everywhere , adequate investment in training and modern laboratory facilities , and progress toward simplified regulatory approaches that are responsive to accumulating evidence of safety .
The Golden Rice story makes it clear that we do not yet have the will and the wisdom to make that happen .
A Standby Program for the Eurozone
CHICAGO - How will the eurozone crisis play out in the next few weeks ?
With luck , Italy may soon get a credible government of national unity , Spain will obtain a new government in November with a mandate for change , and Greece will do enough to avoid roiling the markets .
But none of this can be relied upon .
So , what needs to be done ?
First , eurozone banks have to be recapitalized .
Second , enough funding must be available to meet Italy &apos;s and Spain &apos;s needs over the next year or so if their market access dries up .
And , third , Greece , now the sickest man of Europe , must be treated in a way that does not spread the infection to the other countries on the eurozone &apos;s periphery .
All of this requires financing - bank recapitalization alone could require hundreds of billions of euros ( though these needs would be mitigated somewhat if the sovereign debt of large eurozone countries looked healthier ) .
In the short run , it is unlikely that Germany ( and Northern Europe more generally ) will put up more money for the others .
Germans are upset at being asked to support countries that do not seem to want to adjust - unlike Germany , which is competitive because it endured years of pain : low wage increases to absorb the former East Germany &apos;s workers and deep labor @-@ market and pension reforms .
The unwillingness of the Greek rich to pay taxes , or of Italian parliamentarians to cut their own perks , confirms Germans &quot; fears .
At the same time , German politicians have done a poor job explaining to their people how much they have gained from the euro .
But we are where we are .
A glimmer of hope is Europe &apos;s willingness to use the European Financial Stability Facility ( EFSF ) imaginatively - as equity or first @-@ loss cover .
Clearly , some of the EFSF funds will have to go to recapitalize banks that cannot raise money from the markets .
As for the rest , the amounts that are not already committed to the peripheral countries could be used to support borrowing that can be lent onward to Italy and Spain .
There is , however , no consensus about how to do this .
Some propose bringing in the European Central Bank to leverage the EFSF &apos;s funds .
This is a recipe for trouble .
Giving the ECB a quasi @-@ fiscal role , even if it is somewhat insulated from losses , risks undermining its credibility .
And if Italy were helped , the incoming ECB President , Mario Draghi , an Italian , would be criticized , no matter how dire Italy &apos;s need .
Moreover , financing would have to be accompanied by conditionality , and these institutions have neither the requisite expertise nor the necessary distance from the countries at risk to apply and enforce appropriate conditions .
Finally , both the EFSF and the ECB ultimately rely on the same eurozone resources for their financial strength .
If markets start panicking about large eurozone defaults , they could question whether even a willing Germany has the necessary capacity to support the EFSF @-@ ECB combine .
Put differently , these institutions do not offer a credible , non @-@ inflationary , external source of strength .
Indeed , the eurozone &apos;s problems might soon become too big for its members to address .
The world has a stake in their resolution .
And it has an institution that can channel help : the International Monetary Fund .
The IMF could set up a special vehicle along the lines of its New Arrangements to Borrow ( NAB ) , which would be capitalized by a first @-@ loss layer from the EFSF with the IMF &apos;s own capital comprising a second layer .
This NAB @-@ like vehicle could borrow as needed from countries , including the United States and China , as well as tap financial markets .
It would offer large lines of credit to illiquid countries like Italy , with conditionality intended to help such countries resume borrowing from markets at reasonable cost .
A special vehicle is required because the amounts that must be made available far exceed what IMF members can usually access , and it is only right that if the eurozone seeks such amounts for its members , it should bear a significant portion of any potential losses .
At the same time , the Fund &apos;s capital resources would back the vehicle if the first @-@ loss buffer provided by the eurozone were eroded ; that way , the market would understand that strength from outside the eurozone can be brought to bear .
The IMF is not an institution that inspires warm and cuddly feelings .
But it is also not the mindless preacher of fiscal austerity that it is accused of being - and it should start taking the lead in managing the crisis , rather than holding up the rear .
The eurozone needs an independent outside assessment of what needs to be done , and rapid implementation , before it is too late and the incipient bank runs become uncontrollable .
Of course , the IMF cannot act without the permission of its masters , the large countries .
The eurozone should suppress any wounded pride , acknowledge that it needs help , and provide quickly what it has already promised .
The US should continue pushing hard for a solution .
And the emerging @-@ market countries should pitch in too , once some safeguards for their money are in place .
Unresolved , the crisis will spare no one .
As for the birthplace of the euro crisis , Greece &apos;s debt will almost surely have to be restructured .
But adequate funding structures for Italy and Spain must be in place before any resolution .
So , while others have to step forward to do their part , it is best if Greece steps back from the brink .
A Star is Jailed
BANGKOK - Joseph Estrada , the disgraced former president of the Philippines , faces the prospect of spending his remaining years in prison after a special court in Manila found him guilty of amassing around US $ 15 million in bribes and kickbacks .
During the 30 months he ruled his country , from mid @-@ 1998 to the start of 2001 , Estrada accepted payoffs from gambling lords and orchestrated ( with social security funds ) sales of stocks , channeling much of the profits into his personal aliased account .
Estrada literally defined plunder : as a senator in the early 1990 &quot; s , he was a member of the congress that crafted the law under which he was convicted .
For many Filipinos , there is more than enough poetry in this fact , and certainly more irony than Estrada &apos;s action @-@ comedy movies of the 1960 &quot; s ever mustered .
There is no underplaying the significance of the court &apos;s unanimous decision to convict the first Philippine president ever to undergo a criminal trial .
This is , after all , the Philippines , where Imelda Marcos is still living free and easy .
Despite massive evidence of the widespread death , poverty , suffering , and dysfunction she and her late husband , the dictator Ferdinand Marcos , inflicted on the Philippines , the only real disappointment she has subsequently endured has been losing the last presidential election she was allowed to contest .
The Philippines is not a country used to seeing powerful people punished .
When officials are accused or suspected of corruption , they do not quickly resign , as in Korea or Japan .
Instead , they often seek immunity by running for public office .
When a bloody coup against Corazon Aquino &apos;s fledgling democratic government failed , the leader of the putsch escaped from a floating prison - and then successfully ran for senator .
The wheels of Philippine justice need retooling , so much so that the country &apos;s Chief Justice himself recently called for an emergency summit to discuss a rash of extra @-@ judicial killings that have the claimed the lives of leftists , human rights workers , and journalists under President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo .
There have been few convictions for these crimes .
Yet Filipinos themselves simply cannot seem to imagine their leaders behind bars .
Even before Estrada &apos;s conviction , opinion polls showed that 48 % of Filipinos wanted clemency , if not a guaranteed pardon from Arroyo .
More than 80 % said Estrada should be allowed to languish in a lush private family vacation home where he already spent the last six years awaiting his verdict .
Is this lack of appetite for justice a part of Filipino culture , or learned behavior ?
Has an overly forgiving nature prevented Filipinos from achieving closure in so many painful chapters of their history , or are the ravages of impunity to blame ?
With so few examples of justice clearly dispensed , and overwhelmed by examples of villains so easily forgiven or forgotten , perhaps Filipinos could not bring themselves to demand what they could not imagine .
Estrada &apos;s conviction gives Filipinos the clearest illustration of what the rule of law may bring to their society .
Estrada remains adored by the masses , but so far the public &apos;s reaction to the verdict has been nonviolent and almost subdued .
Notwithstanding the opinion polls , it does seem as though the public not only accepts his conviction , but that they respect it as the outcome of a fair system that has been allowed to work .
This suggests not only that justice in the Philippines has a chance ; equally important , it suggests that Filipinos will give justice a chance .
If the Estrada saga leads to a firm yet dignified exercise of justice , Filipinos may discover a taste for more of the same .
Europe &apos;s Lost Keynesians
CAMBRIDGE - There is no magic Keynesian bullet for the eurozone &apos;s woes .
But the spectacularly muddle @-@ headed argument nowadays that too much austerity is killing Europe is not surprising .
Commentators are consumed by politics , flailing away at any available target , while the &quot; anti @-@ austerity &quot; masses apparently believe that there are easy cyclical solutions to tough structural problems .
The eurozone &apos;s difficulties , I have long argued , stem from European financial and monetary integration having gotten too far ahead of actual political , fiscal , and banking union .
This is not a problem with which Keynes was familiar , much less one that he sought to address .
Above all , any realistic strategy for dealing with the eurozone crisis must involve massive write @-@ downs ( forgiveness ) of peripheral countries &quot; debt .
These countries &quot; massive combined bank and government debt - the distinction everywhere in Europe has become blurred - makes rapid sustained growth a dream .
This is hardly the first time I have stressed the need for wholesale debt write @-@ downs .
Two years ago , in a commentary called &quot; The Euro &apos;s Pig @-@ Headed Masters , &quot; I wrote that &quot; Europe is in constitutional crisis .
No one seems to have the power to impose a sensible resolution of its peripheral countries &quot; debt crisis .
Instead of restructuring the manifestly unsustainable debt burdens of Portugal , Ireland , and Greece ( the PIGs ) , politicians and policymakers are pushing for ever @-@ larger bailout packages with ever @-@ less realistic austerity conditions . &quot;
My sometime co @-@ author Carmen Reinhart makes the same point , perhaps even more clearly .
In a May 2010 Washington Post editorial ( co @-@ authored with Vincent Reinhart ) , she described &quot; Five Myths About the European Debt Crisis &quot; - among them , &quot; Myth # 3 : Fiscal austerity will solve Europe &apos;s debt woes . &quot; We have repeated the mantra dozens of times in various settings , as any fair observer would confirm .
In a debt restructuring , the northern eurozone countries ( including France ) will see hundreds of billions of euros go up in smoke .
Northern taxpayers will be forced to inject massive amounts of capital into banks , even if the authorities impose significant losses on banks &quot; large and wholesale creditors , as well they should .
These hundreds of billions of euros are already lost , and the game of pretending otherwise cannot continue indefinitely .
A gentler way to achieve some modest reduction in public and private debt burdens would be to commit to a period of sustained but moderate inflation , as I recommended in December 2008 in a commentary entitled &quot; Inflation is Now the Lesser Evil . &quot;
Sustained moderate inflation would help to bring down the real value of real estate more quickly , and potentially make it easier for German wages to rise faster than those in peripheral countries .
It would have been a great idea four and a half years ago .
It remains a good idea today .
What else needs to happen ?
The other steps involve economic restructuring at the national level and political integration of the eurozone .
In another commentary , &quot; A Centerless Euro Cannot Hold , &quot; I concluded that &quot; without further profound political and economic integration - which may not end up including all current eurozone members - the euro may not make it even to the end of this decade . &quot;
Here , all eyes may be on Germany , but today it is really France that will play the central role in deciding the euro &apos;s fate .
Germany cannot carry the euro on its shoulders alone indefinitely .
France needs to become a second anchor of growth and stability .
Temporary Keynesian demand measures may help to sustain short @-@ run internal growth , but they will not solve France &apos;s long @-@ run competitiveness problems . At the same time , France and Germany must both come to terms with an approach that leads to far greater political union within a couple of decades .
Otherwise , the coming banking union and fiscal transfers will lack the necessary political legitimacy .
As my colleague Jeffrey Frankel has remarked , for more than 20 years , Germany &apos;s elites have insisted that the eurozone will not be a transfer union .
But , in the end , ordinary Germans have been proved right , and the elites have been proved wrong .
Indeed , if the eurozone is to survive , the northern countries will have to continue to help the periphery with new loans until access to private markets is restored .
So , given that Germany will be picking up many more bills ( regardless of whether the eurozone survives ) , how can it best use the strength of its balance sheet to alleviate Europe &apos;s growth problems ?
Certainly , Germany must continue to acquiesce in an ever @-@ larger role for the European Central Bank , despite the obvious implicit fiscal risks .
There is no safe path forward .
There are a number of schemes floating around for leveraging Germany &apos;s lower borrowing costs to help its partner countries , beyond simply expanding the ECB &apos;s balance sheet .
For meaningful burden @-@ sharing to work , however , eurozone leaders must stop dreaming that the single currency can survive another 20 or 30 years without much greater political union .
Debt write @-@ downs and guarantees will inevitably bloat Germany &apos;s government debt , as the authorities are forced to bail out German banks ( and probably some neighboring countries &quot; banks ) .
But the sooner the underlying reality is made transparent and becomes widely recognized , the lower the long @-@ run cost will be .
To my mind , using Germany &apos;s balance sheet to help its neighbors directly is far more likely to work than is the presumed &quot; trickle @-@ down &quot; effect of a German @-@ led fiscal expansion .
This , unfortunately , is what has been lost in the debate about Europe of late : However loud and aggressive the anti @-@ austerity movement becomes , there still will be no simple Keynesian cure for the single currency &apos;s debt and growth woes .
A Survival Strategy for the Eurozone
NEW YORK - After the Greek and Irish crises and the spread of financial contagion to Portugal , Spain , and possibly even Italy , the eurozone is now in a serious crisis .
There are three possible scenarios : &quot; muddle through , &quot; based on the current approach of &quot; lend and pray &quot; ; &quot; break @-@ up , &quot; with disorderly debt restructurings and possible exit of weaker members ; and &quot; greater integration , &quot; implying some form of fiscal union .
The muddle @-@ through scenario - with financing provided to member states in distress ( conditional on fiscal adjustment and structural reforms ) , in the hope that they are illiquid but solvent - is an unstable disequilibrium .
Indeed , it could lead to the disorderly breakup scenario if institutional reforms and other policies leading to closer integration and restoration of growth in the eurozone &apos;s periphery are not implemented soon .
The crisis started with too much private debt and leverage , which became public debt and deficits as crisis and recession triggered fiscal deterioration and private losses were mostly socialized via bailouts of financial systems .
Then , distressed sovereigns that had already lost market access - Greece and Ireland - were bailed out by the International Monetary Fund and the European Union .
But no one will bail out these super @-@ sovereigns if the sovereigns prove to be insolvent .
Thus , the current strategy of kicking the can down the road will soon reach its limits , and a different plan will be needed to save the eurozone .
The first institutional reform takes the form of a larger envelope of official resources , which would mean a quasi @-@ fiscal union .
Official resources currently are sufficient to bail out Greece , Ireland , and Portugal , but not to prevent a self @-@ fulfilling run on the short @-@ term sovereign and financial liabilities of Spain and other potentially distressed eurozone members .
So , even if these countries were to implement the necessary fiscal and structural reforms , an increase of official resources would nonetheless be needed .
Because nervous investors don &apos;t want to be last in line in case of a run , a disorderly rush to the exits is likely when official resources are insufficient .
Short of full fiscal unification - or a variant of it in the form of eurozone bonds - this increase in official resources would occur through a much @-@ enlarged European Financial Stability Facility and a much greater commitment by the European Central Bank to long @-@ term bond purchases and liquidity operations to support banks .
Since quasi @-@ fiscal union implies that the eurozone &apos;s core economies could end up systematically bailing out those on the periphery , only a formal loss of fiscal sovereignty - a credible commitment by the peripheral countries to medium- and long @-@ term fiscal discipline - could overcome the current political resistance of Germany and others .
But even a larger envelope of official resources is not sufficient to stem the insolvency problems of Greece , Ireland , and , possibly , Portugal and Spain .
Thus , a second set of policies and institutional reforms requires that all unsecured creditors of banks and other financial institutions need to be &quot; treated &quot; - that is , they must accept losses ( or &quot; haircuts &quot; ) on their claims .
This is needed to prevent even more private debt being put on government balance sheets , causing a fiscal blowout .
If orderly treatment of unsecured senior creditors requires a new cross @-@ border regime to close down insolvent European banks , such a regime should be implemented without delay .
Similarly , super @-@ sovereigns cannot continue to bail out distressed sovereigns that are insolvent rather than illiquid .
Thus , in addition to an orderly resolution regime for banks , Europe must also implement early orderly restructurings of distressed sovereigns &quot; public debt .
Waiting until 2013 to implement these restructurings , as German Chancellor Angela Merkel proposes , will destroy confidence , as it implies a much larger haircut on residual private claims on sovereign borrowers .
Thus , orderly market @-@ based restructurings via exchange offers need to occur in 2011 .
Such exchange offers can limit private creditors &quot; losses if they are done early .
That way , formal haircuts on the face value of debt can be avoided via new bonds that include only a maturity extension and an interest @-@ rate cap that is set below today &apos;s unsustainable market rates .
Waiting to restructure unsustainable debts would only lead to disorderly workouts and severe haircuts for some private creditors .
Finally , Europe needs policies that restore competitiveness and growth to the eurozone &apos;s periphery , where GDP is either still contracting ( Greece , Spain , and Ireland ) or barely growing ( Italy and Portugal ) .
Without growth , it will be difficult to stabilize public and private debts and deficits as a share of GDP - the most important indicator of fiscal sustainability .
Moreover , without growth , the social and political backlash against painful belt @-@ tightening will eventually undermine austerity and reform .
Unfortunately , fiscal austerity and structural reforms are - at least in the short run - recessionary and deflationary .
So other policies are needed to restore growth .
The ECB should pursue a much looser monetary policy to jump @-@ start growth , with a weaker euro to help boost the periphery &apos;s competitiveness .
In addition , Germany should delay its fiscal consolidation ; if anything , it should cut taxes for a couple of years to boost its own growth and - via trade - that of the periphery .
In the next few months , it will become clear whether European policymakers can compromise and implement reforms that dampen the threat of a eurozone breakup .
Either the EU moves in the direction of a more stable equilibrium of closer integration , or the risk of an unstable and disorderly breakup scenario will rise significantly .
A Sustainable Housing Recovery ?
NEW HAVEN - Volatility in the housing market has long been known , but until now it has never been visible in so many places around the world at the same time .
Indeed , the year 2009 might even be a milestone marking a new era of volatility .
Since 2000 , we have seen the most dramatic evidence ever of speculative bubbles in markets for owner @-@ occupied homes .
Home prices exploded after 2000 in North America , Europe , and Asia , and in many isolated places elsewhere in the world .
Markets peaked in 2007 , and then fell sharply in many of these places with the onset of the global financial crisis .
Surprisingly , prices rebounded in some places in 2009 .
It seems the story never ends .
In the United States , the S &amp; amp ; P / Case @-@ Shiller 10 @-@ City Home Price Index recorded the biggest turnaround since the index began in 1987 , rising 5 % ( a 15 % annual rate ) from April to August 2009 , after having fallen 7 % ( a 21 % annual rate ) in the four months from December 2008 to March 2009 .
Recent increases in home prices have also been seen in Australia , the United Kingdom , Hong Kong , Korea , Singapore , and Sweden , and optimistic talk is heard in still more places .
Housing prices are on a rollercoaster ride , and we may never be able to make complete sense of their movements , other than to understand the volatility that they represent .
Indeed , in a volatile speculative market , where people buy and sell in anticipation of further price movements , history confirms that price movements will be hard to explain , even after the fact .
They reflect changing investor psychology , which is hard to discern , and new information , which may still be amorphous and ambiguous .
This surge in volatility appears to reflect a new and different attitude toward homes as an asset - an attitude that has spread around much of the world . We used to think that homes were in the same category as automobiles : depreciating assets that grow obsolete over time , are costly to maintain , and go out of style , eventually to be scrapped and replaced .
Now we think of them as claims on increasingly scarce resources in a rapidly growing world , with prices potentially skyrocketing any day .
It used to be commonly thought that a home &apos;s value consists primarily in the structure , not in the land on which it sits .
This should be increasingly true as high @-@ rise condominiums become more common .
In some cases 100 homes can , in effect , be stacked on one another .
With such intensive use of land , our land constraints for housing construction are vanishingly small .
This long @-@ term trend towards multifamily housing may be expected to continue , further diminishing the importance of land to home values .
But the recent speculative bubbles have in effect boosted the percentage of land value in home value .
Although much of this was temporary , we now tend to think of homes as land rather than structures .
Economists usually compute urban land value by subtracting the estimated construction cost of the home from the home price , so that land value is inferred as a residual .
Economists do this because in most places direct sales of vacant urban land are rare , and often involve unusual places or unusual circumstances , that make such sales unrepresentative of land values underneath homes .
Thus , the bubble component in home prices is attributed to a surge in land prices , even though land prices outside of bubbly urban areas are vastly lower .
Many people appear to believe that upswings in home prices reflect increasing scarcity of land in a world constrained by rapid economic growth and severe resource constraints ( symbolized by the fear of global warming ) .
They view the recent collapse of the housing bubble as merely the effect of a temporary financial crisis , which governments around the world seem to be confronting aggressively .
Such thinking may be playing a part in the recent rebound of home prices .
But in fact , it is probably more accurate to think of the ups and downs of the world &apos;s housing markets as a reflection of the change in our thinking about housing as an investment .
If so , the volatility in home prices after 2000 was the result of faulty thinking , not of the natural effects of global economic growth , which has occurred at a relatively smooth rate for decades now . Faulty thinking , in turn , encouraged loose practices by mortgage lenders , and led central banks to take no action against housing bubbles as they developed .
In many countries , governments in 2009 responded to the collapse of housing bubbles by instituting policies aimed at supporting these speculative markets .
The result , however , has been to lead people to add another , political , component to their assessment of home prices , unhinging them further from economic fundamentals .
A basic fact is often forgotten : the modern construction industry is quite capable of building vast numbers of fine modern homes , including units in high @-@ rise buildings , at costs far below the prices of homes in many urban areas today .
This should put a break on long @-@ run escalation of home prices .
Housing speculators seem often to be betting on the political equilibrium that restricts the supply of housing , and on the indefinite continuation of the artificial supports started during this financial crisis .
But , in a newly global economy , with increasing interregional and international population flows and widespread commitment to economic freedom , it is very hard for governments to restrict supply in the long run .
That is why it appears safer to predict high volatility in 2010 than to predict that home prices will rise .
A Sustainable Recovery
NEW YORK - The global recession now underway is the result not only of a financial panic , but also of more basic uncertainty about the future direction of the world economy .
Consumers are pulling back from home and automobile purchases not only because they have suffered a blow to their wealth with declining stock prices and housing values , but also because they don &apos;t know where to turn .
Should they risk buying a new car when gasoline prices might soar again ?
Will they be able to put food on the table after this year &apos;s terrifying rise in food prices ?
Decisions about business investment are even starker .
Businesses are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is plummeting and they face unprecedented risk penalties on their borrowing costs .
They are also facing huge uncertainties .
What kinds of power plants will be acceptable in the future ?
Will they be allowed to emit carbon dioxide as in the past ?
Can the United States still afford a suburban lifestyle , with sprawling homes in far @-@ flung communities that require long @-@ distance automobile commutes ?
To a large extent , economic recovery will depend on a much clearer sense of the direction of future economic change .
That is largely the job of government .
After the confused and misguided leadership of the Bush administration , which failed to give any clear path to energy , health , climate , and financial policies , President @-@ elect Barack Obama will have to start charting a course that defines the American economy &apos;s future direction .
The US is not the only economy in this equation .
We need a global vision of sustainable recovery that includes leadership from China , India , Europe , Latin America , and , yes , even Africa , long marginalized from the world economy , but very much part of it now .
There are a few clear points amidst the large uncertainties and confusions .
First , the US cannot continue borrowing from the rest of the world as it has for the past eight years .
America &apos;s net exports will have to increase , meaning that the net exports of China , Japan , and other surplus countries will consequently decrease .
The adjustments needed amount to a sizeable deficit @-@ to @-@ balance swing of around $ 700 billion in the US current account , or nearly 5 % of US GNP .
China &apos;s trade surplus might shrink by half of that amount ( with cuts in trade surpluses also spread over other global regions ) , meaning a shift in Chinese GNP toward internal demand and away from net exports equal to between 5 % and 10 % of China &apos;s GNP .
Fortunately , China is promoting a major domestic expansion .
Second , the decline in US consumption should also be partly offset by a rise in US investment .
However , private business will not step up investment unless there is a clear policy direction for the economy .
Obama has emphasized the need for a &quot; green recovery , &quot; that is , one based on sustainable technologies , not merely on consumption spending .
The US auto industry should be re @-@ tooled for low @-@ carbon @-@ emission automobiles , either plug @-@ in hybrids or pure battery @-@ operated vehicles .
Either technology will depend on a national electricity grid that uses low @-@ emission forms of power generation , such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal @-@ fired plants that capture and store the carbon @-@ dioxide emissions .
All of these technologies will require public funding alongside private investment .
Third , the US recovery will not be credible unless there is also a strategy for getting the government &apos;s own finances back in order .
George W. Bush &apos;s idea of economic policy was to cut taxes three times while boosting spending on war .
The result is a massive budget deficit , which will expand to gargantuan proportions in the coming year ( perhaps $ 1 trillion ) under the added weight of recession , bank bailouts , and short @-@ term fiscal stimulus measures .
Obama will need to put forward a medium @-@ term fiscal plan that restores government finances .
This will include ending the war in Iraq , raising taxes on the rich , and also gradually phasing in new consumption taxes .
The US currently collects the lowest ratio of taxes to national income among rich nations .
This will have to change .
Fourth , the world &apos;s poor regions need to be seen as investment opportunities , not as threats or places to ignore .
At a time when the major infrastructure companies of the US , Europe , and Japan will have serious excess capacity , the World Bank , the European Investment Bank , the US Export @-@ Import Bank , the African Development Bank , and other public investment funds should be financing large @-@ scale infrastructure spending in Africa , to build roads , power plants , ports , and telecommunications systems .
So long as the credits are long term and carry a modest interest rate ( say , 25 @-@ year dollar loans at 5 % per annum ) , the recipient countries could repay the loans out of the significant boost in incomes that would result over the course of a generation .
The benefits would be extraordinary , for both Africa and the rich countries , which would be putting their businesses and skilled workers back to work .
Such loans , of course , would require a major global initiative , at a time when even blue @-@ chip companies cannot borrow overnight , much less for 25 years !
In typical business cycles , countries are usually left to manage the recovery largely on their own .
This time we will need global cooperation .
Recovery will require major shifts in trade imbalances , technologies , and public budgets .
These large @-@ scale changes will have to be coordinated , at least informally if not tightly , among the major economies .
Each should understand the basic directions of change that will be required at the national level and globally , and all nations must share in the deployment of new sustainable technologies and in the co @-@ financing of global responsibilities , such as increased investments in African infrastructure .
We have arrived at a moment in history when cooperative global political leadership is more important than ever .
Fortunately , the US has taken a huge step forward with Obama &apos;s election .
Now to action .
A Tale of Two American Economies
NEW YORK - While the United States recently reported 3.5 % GDP growth in the third quarter , suggesting that the most severe recession since the Great Depression is over , the American economy is actually much weaker than official data suggest .
But official measures of GDP may grossly overstate growth in the economy as they don &apos;t capture the fact that business sentiment among small firms is abysmal and their output is still falling sharply .
Third quarter GDP - properly corrected for these factors - may have been 2 % rather than 3.5 % .
The story of the US is , indeed , one of two economies . There is a smaller one that is slowly recovering and a larger one that is still in a deep and persistent downturn .
Consider the following facts . While America &apos;s official unemployment rate is already 10.2 % , the figure jumps to a whopping 17.5 % when discouraged workers and partially employed workers are included .
And , while data from firms suggest that job losses in the last three months were about 600,000 , household surveys , which include self @-@ employed workers and small entrepreneurs , suggest that those losses were above two million .
Moreover , the total effect on labor income - the product of jobs times hours worked times average hourly wages - has been more severe than that implied by the job losses alone , because many firms are cutting their workers &quot; hours , placing them on furlough , or lowering their wages as a way to share the pain .
Many of the lost jobs - in construction , finance , and outsourced manufacturing and services - are gone forever , and recent studies suggest that a quarter of US jobs can be fully outsourced over time to other countries .
Thus , a growing proportion of the workforce - often below the radar screen of official statistics - is losing hope of finding gainful employment , while the unemployment rate ( especially for poor , unskilled workers ) will remain high for a much longer period of time than in previous recessions .
Consider also the credit markets .
Prime borrowers with good credit scores and investment @-@ grade firms are not experiencing a credit crunch at this point , as the former have access to mortgages and consumer credit while the latter have access to bond and equity markets .
But non @-@ prime borrowers - about one @-@ third of US households - do not have much access to mortgages and credit cards .
They live from paycheck to paycheck - often a shrinking paycheck , owing to the decline in hourly wages and hours worked .
And the credit crunch for non @-@ investment @-@ grade firms and smaller firms , which rely mostly on access to bank loans rather than capital markets , is still severe .
Or consider bankruptcies and defaults by households and firms .
Larger firms - even those with large debt problems - can refinance their excessive liabilities in court or out of court ; but an unprecedented number of small businesses are going bankrupt .
The same holds for households , with millions of weaker and poorer borrowers defaulting on mortgages , credit cards , auto loans , student loans , and other forms of consumer credit .
Consider also what is happening to private consumption and retail sales .
Recent monthly figures suggest a pick @-@ up in retail sales .
But , because the official statistics capture mostly sales by larger retailers and exclude the fall in sales by hundreds of thousands of smaller stores and businesses that have failed , consumption looks better than it really is .
And , while higher @-@ income and wealthier households have a buffer of savings to smooth consumption and avoid having to increase savings , most lower @-@ income households must save more , as banks and other lenders cut back on home @-@ equity loans and lower limits on credit cards .
As a result , the household savings rate has risen from zero to 4 % of disposable income .
But it must rise further , to 8 % , in order to reduce the high leverage of household sector .
To be sure , the US government is increasing its budget deficits to put a floor under demand .
But most state and local governments that have experienced a collapse in tax revenues must sharply retrench spending by firing policemen , teachers , and firefighters while also cutting welfare benefits and social services for the poor .
Many state and local governments in poorer regions of the country are at risk of bankruptcy unless the federal government undertakes a massive bailout of their finances .
Moreover , income and wealth inequality is rising again : poorer households are at greater risk of unemployment , falling wages , or reductions in hours worked , all leading to lower labor income , whereas on Wall Street outrageous bonuses have returned with a vengeance .
With the stock market rising while home prices are still falling , the wealthy are becoming richer , while the middle class and the poor - whose main wealth is a home rather than equities - are becoming poorer and being saddled with an unsustainable debt burden .
So , while the US may technically be close to the end of a severe recession , most of America is facing a near @-@ depression .
Little wonder , then , that few Americans believe that what walks like a duck and quacks like a duck is actually the phoenix of recovery .
A Tale of Two Currency Areas
PALO ALTO - The United States and Europe are two giant free @-@ trade areas , each wealthy but with serious short @-@ run problems and immense long @-@ run challenges .
They are also two single @-@ currency areas : the dollar and , for much of Europe , the euro .
The challenges facing both are monumental .
But only Europe &apos;s currency union faces uncertainty about its future ; America faces no existential crisis for its currency .
The two economic powers &quot; similarities and differences , particularly with respect to internal labor mobility , productivity , and fiscal policies , suggest why - and provide clues about whether the eurozone can weather the crises on its periphery and evolve into a stable single @-@ currency area .
Labor mobility from poorer to richer areas provides a shock absorber against differential economic hardship .
The other natural shock absorber is a depreciating currency , which increases competitiveness in the area hit hardest .
That cannot happen with a common currency , and economic adjustment is doubly difficult when labor is not mobile enough to help mitigate regional contractions in income and unemployment .
The reasons for lower labor mobility in the eurozone than in America are legion .
True , America &apos;s original thirteen colonies were a loose federation , and many Americans considered themselves citizens of their state first and of the US second as late as a century after the Revolution .
But one &apos;s state was not a fully formed nation , with its own shared and deeply ingrained history , culture , ethnic identity , and religion .
Perhaps the most important cultural component of labor mobility is language .
From Mississippi to Maine , and from New York to New Orleans , America &apos;s written language is the same and the spoken language is understandable to all .
Not so from Berlin to Barcelona or Rome to Rotterdam .
( Or , for that matter , from northern to southern China or in multilingual India , where Hindi is spoken by only 42 % of the population . )
For eurozone citizens who do not speak a major language , especially English , mobility across national borders within the single @-@ currency area is limited at best .
These are differences that cannot be easily erased .
While some aspects of culture are becoming globalized , variation across borders in Europe is far greater than it is between US states .
For example , until the second half of the twentieth century , today &apos;s eurozone members regularly slaughtered each other on centuries of battlefields .
By contrast , history is more commonly shared among Americans from different states , who , other than in the Civil War , have fought side by side in the nation &apos;s external wars .
All of this means that when California slumps , residents simply leave for the mountain states ; when manufacturing jobs disappear in the upper Midwest , people migrate to new jobs in Texas .
That pattern is much less prevalent in Europe .
Moreover , it is a pattern that has closed the gap ( now roughly 40 % ) between per capita income in America &apos;s poorest and richest states , as labor and capital continually adjust by moving to areas where productivity is higher .
The range of productivity and per capita income within the eurozone is considerably wider , making mobility even more important .
Finally , while fiscal systems differ among American states , the overall fiscal burden is under half that of the federal level .
Almost all states &quot; constitutions require balanced budgets ( with exceptions for emergencies ) .
American states and municipalities do face serious medium- and long @-@ term fiscal challenges from underfunded pension and health @-@ care systems , but citizens living in different states have a common national budget , whereas citizens of different eurozone countries face radically different central @-@ government fiscal positions .
Indeed , many observers argue that the eurozone &apos;s lack of a common fiscal system is its main problem .
But competition over taxes and services is beneficial , not harmful .
Nevertheless , much tighter constraints , with serious and enforceable penalties , must be placed on permissible budget positions and their transparency if the euro is to survive .
And it can survive .
Those who would write off the euro as a failure should consider that it is only ten years old .
America , too , historically had problems as a single @-@ currency area , from early chaos before the Constitution to the clash between agricultural and banking interests over the gold standard in the late nineteenth century .
While the euro faces strong headwinds , the dollar &apos;s early sailing wasn &apos;t always smooth , either .
The eurozone countries must first deal with the sovereign @-@ debt crisis , reduce their fiscal deficits , and strengthen the woefully undercapitalized banking system .
But , if the eurozone is to survive and prosper beyond the current crisis , it will also need comprehensive structural reforms to boost internal labor mobility and defuse the pressures caused by economic adjustment among nations and regions .
Whether citizens will support politicians who propose the labor , tax , and other reforms needed to enhance mobility , and whether such reforms will be sufficient to overcome linguistic and cultural barriers , are open questions .
Successive generations of post @-@ war European political leaders initiated the European Union and then currency union in order to knit countries so closely together that another major war between them would become impossible .
Whether monetary union was necessary to accomplish that aim is debatable .
Despite the considerable advantages of a common currency ( price transparency , lower transaction costs , and inflation credibility , to name a few ) , the difficulty of macroeconomic management of such diverse economies looms larger than ever .
The euro was always a big gamble , a grand experiment .
Historical efforts at monetary union have sometimes collapsed , and sometimes they have survived multiple crises .
The future of the eurozone may be cloudy , but it will not be dull .
A Tale of Two Defaults
BRUSSELS - Once upon a time , there was a country plagued by large deficits , high inflation , and decades of economic stagnation .
When economic problems once again became particularly acute , the country &apos;s leadership embraced a radical approach to achieving price stability .
A new currency was introduced and pegged to the US dollar at a one @-@ to @-@ one exchange rate .
A new law stipulated that this quasi @-@ monetary union was to last forever .
Moreover , the economy was opened , state enterprises were privatized , and the country participated in an important regional free @-@ trade initiative .
Initially , the new arrangement worked very well .
Growth returned , and confidence among foreign investors was such that large inflows of foreign direct investment , especially in the banking sector , arrived .
But , after about 10 years , the success story turned bitter .
The region &apos;s dominant trading partner devalued , and the US dollar appreciated considerably .
The country thus had problems exporting .
It developed external deficits and growth slowed .
Moreover , fiscal policy had not been kept under control , resulting in increasing public debt .
International investors were initially quite willing to finance the government , but risk premia started to increase when the deficits became chronic .
The difficulties intensified when risk aversion in international financial markets increased markedly , owing to other emerging @-@ market defaults .
When the risk premia threatened to become unbearable , the international community responded with large financial support packages , financed principally by the International Monetary Fund and some friendly countries . &amp; # 160 ;
The first rescue package envisaged a resumption of growth , a decline in the fiscal deficit , and structural reforms .
None of this was achieved , as the economy deteriorated under the impact of the fiscal measures , which were not offset by a surge in exports , because wages could not be lowered to gain competitiveness .
One year later , risk premia were even higher than before , and a second bailout package was put together , followed by a large &quot; voluntary &quot; debt rescheduling .
But none of this was enough to restore the confidence of international investors , who were not convinced that the government could service its debt in the face of mounting social resistance and an economy that continued to contract .
Even worse , the country &apos;s savers lost trust in their own government , and started to withdraw their deposits .
As the deposit flight accelerated , the economy went into a tailspin and social tensions exploded .
The government fell , and one of its fleeting successors announced a cessation of payments to foreign bondholders and an end to the currency peg .
The country was Argentina , which took about 10 years to move from its hard exchange @-@ rate peg to the dollar , introduced in 1991 , to its messy default at the turn of 2001 @-@ 2002 .
The Greek experience - so far , at least - looks like a replay of the Argentine drama .
Greece also had a history of fiscal problems and inflation , which were supposed to be cured by admission to the European Union &apos;s Economic and Monetary Union ( EMU ) in 2001 ( coincidentally , just as Argentina was preparing to default ) .
Its first decade in EMU was also characterized by rapid economic growth , fueled mainly by abundant and cheap capital inflows .
But during this first decade , a key underlying problem emerged as Greece lost competitiveness relative to Germany , just as Argentina had lost competitiveness to Brazil .
While Argentina had been hit by the fallout from the emerging @-@ market debt crisis of the late 1990 &quot; s , Greece is now being hit by the increase in risk aversion since the financial crisis of 2008 .
As with Argentina a decade ago , Greece no longer looks solvent to international investors when they consider the country &apos;s slow growth and higher risk premia .
Their skepticism seems justified , since the usual indicators of debt sustainability look much worse for Greece than they did for Argentina .
The Greek fiscal and external deficits are about three times larger , and the accumulated debt level is more than twice that of pre @-@ default Argentina .
The first large bailout package for Greece has also met a fate similar to Argentina &apos;s .
One year on , risk premia are even higher , a second package is being put together , and private creditors are being asked to roll over their bond holdings &quot; voluntarily . &quot;
Greece is also receiving much more foreign financial support than Argentina did .
With the two rescue packages , Greece has been promised official credits worth € 230 billion - more than 100 % of its GDP .
On top of this , Greece has received € 90 billion from the ECB ( at an interest rate of 1.25 % ) .
This huge funding has so far saved the Greek banking system from collapse , and it constitutes the key advantage of joining a real monetary union as opposed Argentina &apos;s &quot; quasi @-@ monetary union &quot; with the USD .
But what happens if , like in Argentina , deposit flight continues and accelerates ?
If Greek savers withdraw only one @-@ half of their remaining deposits , the ECB will have to lend another € 100 billion to Greek banks to keep them afloat .
Indeed , Greece might ultimately require more than € 400 billion in official support - almost 200 % of its GDP today .
If Greece were to follow the Argentine script and be forced to leave the eurozone after a messy default , its nominal GDP is likely to be halved .
In that case , the Greek government &apos;s debt to its eurozone partners would be equivalent to 400 % of its GDP , very little of which would be repaid .
Argentina defaulted on its private debt , but at least it repaid all its official debt .
Karl Marx famously wrote that history repeats itself as farce .
In the case of Greece , history might turn out more like a much larger version of Argentina &apos;s tragedy .
A Tale of Two Dictatorships
Myanmar and Pakistan are both Asian countries whose military rulers are in trouble .
But they are heading in opposite directions , because , whereas Pakistan understands why Asia is rising , Myanmar does not .
Asia is rising because Asian countries are increasingly opening their doors to modernity .
Starting with Japan , this modernizing wave has swept through the four &quot; Asian Tigers &quot; ( South Korea , Taiwan , Hong Kong , and Singapore ) , some ASEAN countries ( Malaysia , Indonesia , Thailand , and Vietnam ) , and then to China and India .
Now , it is moving into Pakistan and West Asia .
I was in Pakistan during one of its more exciting weeks .
Exiled former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif sought to return , but was promptly sent back into exile .
The world expected a political eruption . Instead , the country carried on calmly .
Pakistan did not erupt because Pakistan &apos;s elite is focused on modernization .
Led by Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz , who was formerly with Citibank , the country has carried out dramatic structural reforms , matching best practices in leading emerging @-@ market economies .
This explains high economic growth rates .
Pakistan has welcomed foreign trade and investment .
And , just as the success of overseas Indians in America inspired Indians in India , Pakistan stands to similarly benefit from its own successful diaspora .
But this opening to modernity extends beyond economics and finance .
Yes , thousands of madrasas remain open and Islamic fundamentalism is strong . But this has not completely changed the fundamental texture of Pakistan &apos;s society .
One sight at LUMS , a leading private university in Lahore , heartened me : how women were dressed .
When I visited Malaysian campuses as a young man in the 1960 &quot; s , few Malay Muslim women wore the hijab . Today , on the same campuses , almost all do .
By contrast , at LUMS ( which has the look and feel of Harvard Business School ) , only about 5 % of female students wore the hijab , a remarkable expression of social freedom .
There has also been an explosion of free media in Pakistan .
An astonishing number of Pakistani TV stations openly discuss the activities of Sharif and the other exiled former prime minister , Benazir Bhutto .
Indeed , many elements of an open society are in place , including - as the world learned in March - an independent judiciary .
Myanmar , by contrast , broadcasts no information on the dissident Aung San Suu Kyi , and would never allow the reinstatement of a Chief Justice fired by its generals , as Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf did in March , let alone demonstrations in the streets in the Chief Justice &apos;s favor .
Of course , there is much silent resentment about the enormous political and economic space occupied by the Pakistan military , and a danger of a backlash if the military does not learn to share more space with civil society .
I met many retired army generals occupying key posts .
Fortunately , they seemed to have a temperament closer to Colin Powell &apos;s than to either Than Shwe or Maung Aye , the two closed military minds who have cut off Myanmar from the world .
America &apos;s decision to engage , rather than isolate , Pakistan has also helped .
I have no doubt that closer American re @-@ engagement helped to nudge Pakistan in the right direction .
Many members of Pakistan &apos;s elite have been educated in American universities - another leading indicator of a country &apos;s orientation .
Just imagine how different international relations would be if American leaders could visit Myanmar ( or even Iran ) with equal ease and have friendly discussions about agreements and disagreements .
Myanmar &apos;s generals deserve to be condemned for their brutal crackdown on civilian protestors and Buddhist monks .
The Western world will rush to demand more sanctions and more isolation .
But to what avail ?
Myanmar has effectively isolated itself for more than 50 years .
What can even more isolation achieve ?
A courageous Western leader might confront Myanmar &apos;s leaders with a threat that would really frighten them : deeper engagement .
Myanmar &apos;s generals genuinely believe that they are protecting Burmese &quot; purity &quot; by shutting out the world .
Imagine the impact if as many Myanmar generals visited America as Pakistani generals do .
A brave young Myanmar intellectual , Thant Myint @-@ U ( the grandson of former United Nations Secretary General U Thant ) asks , &quot; What outside pressure can bring about democratic change ?
And why , after nearly two decades of boycotts , aid cutoffs , trade bans , and diplomatic condemnation , are Myanmar &apos;s generals apparently more in charge than ever before ? &quot;
I was in Pakistan as a state guest .
But my real mission was to reconnect with my ethnic Sindhi roots , as I had never visited the country where my parents were born .
Only those who understand the pain of the partition of British India in 1947 will appreciate the powerful symbolism of a child of Hindu parents being welcomed back warmly to Muslim Pakistan .
Those cultural ties helped me understand the Urdu and Sindhi being spoken , and also to feel the deep urge to modernize in the Pakistani soul - an urge that exists alongside the urge to reconnect with Pakistan &apos;s rich cultural past .
I left Pakistan feeling hopeful , because I saw the strong desire to join today &apos;s rising Asia .
If a similar impulse could be implanted into Myanmar , both its people and the world would benefit .
A Tale of Two Elections
LONDON - Individual elections do not always enhance democracy - a useful reminder that the ballot box is only one part , albeit a central one , in any free , plural society .
Of course , there are also magnificent examples of elections that strengthen both the stability and the institutions of a community .
We have just witnessed an example of the second kind in India , the world &apos;s largest and greatest democracy , where 420 million voters there returned a Congress @-@ led government with a solid majority .
It was in many respects a personal triumph for Prime Minister Manmohan Singh .
His victory shows that it is possible to succeed in politics through decency , honesty , and high intelligence .
Sonia Gandhi and her family should also take credit for putting at the forefront of their campaign a vision of an inclusive society , which rejects divisions on the basis of caste , ethnicity , language , and religion .
The result should help India to continue - not without occasional turbulence - its journey toward becoming a high @-@ growth economy that raises the standard and quality of life for the poor .
I wish we could look forward in Europe to a similarly healthy democratic experience next month when voters throughout the European Union elect new members of the European Parliament .
Since 1979 , these MEPs have been elected direct rather than indirectly from national parliaments .
But turnout for these elections has been falling in several countries .
There is a danger that the number voting in June will be lower than ever before .
Moreover , in the current grim economic conditions across Europe , voters who do turn out are all too likely to take the opportunity to punish the major parties and vote for fringe and even extremist politicians .
There are particular circumstances that may encourage this electoral response .
First , everywhere there is a sense of disgust at the way the recent boom seemed to privatize gains while the subsequent bust socialized losses .
A few rich individuals appeared to gain and all taxpayers to lose .
This has spread a sense of unfairness .
Second , globalization has been the target for populist criticism .
It is usually defined to mean everything we dislike - from changes to our traditional way of life to loss of jobs .
It is a brave politician who points out how much liberalizing trade and opening up markets have increased our overall prosperity .
Third , in Britain at least , the entire political class has been discredited by a sleazy scandal about the expenses that many parliamentarians have paid themselves .
Analogies with pigs , snouts , and troughs fill the pages of British newspapers .
But there is another reason for the lack of interest in the EU elections .
The European Parliament has power , but it deals with issues that , while important to voters , do not top their list of concerns .
The EU &apos;s member states retain power over the most sensitive political issues , including taxes , health , education , pensions , the labor market , and foreign policy .
So the questions that dominate national campaigns have little impact on European elections .
The European Parliament deals with the important areas where individual countries have pooled their sovereignty , like trade , the creation of a pan @-@ European market , and the biggest environmental issues .
But these are not often the questions that trigger the most passionate interest .
In addition , the European Parliament &apos;s detachment from national political debates means that it has less political legitimacy than is desirable .
Indeed , those who worry about the creation of a European superstate can rest easy .
There will be no such entity , because there is no European electorate ; the electorate remains French , Belgian , Latvian , Greek , and so on .
They all vote at the same time , for the same institution .
But what does an Italian know - or care , for that matter - about British politics ?
Look at our television programs .
We know far more about Europe &apos;s football than we do about Europe &apos;s politics . &quot; The beautiful game &quot; brings people together more effectively and reliably than the European Parliament is able to do .
That is no criticism of those who work - often very hard - in the European Parliament .
We have created a political body that has power to hold European institutions to account but has no obvious European electorate to which it can itself be held accountable .
A parliament without a people inevitably increases the sense of frustration that many European voters feel about the process of making Europe @-@ wide policy choices in their name .
If the Lisbon Treaty is ratified later this year , one of the changes should result in national parliaments becoming more involved in European decision @-@ making .
But we need to look country @-@ by @-@ country at what else we can do to tie Europe &apos;s own parliament into national politics .
Unless we do that better , fewer people will vote for MEPs , more of them will be elected simply on a protest vote and represent Europe &apos;s murky extremes , and the whole practice and principle of European democracy will be discredited .
A Tale of Two Terminals
BEIJING - Ever since it opened recently , Terminal 5 of London &apos;s Heathrow Airport has been plagued with failures .
On the other side of the globe , Terminal 3 in Beijing , which opened for full operations just one day before Terminal 5 , has been operating almost without a glitch .
The media , unsurprisingly , have feasted upon the failures of T5 in London , while neglecting the successes of T3 in Beijing .
By all measures , Beijing &apos;s T3 surpasses London &apos;s T5 .
Whereas T5 can handle only 12,000 bags an hour ( when it handles them at all ) and 30 million passengers per year , T3 can handle 20,000 bags an hour and 50 million passengers .
While T5 will mostly service British Airways , T3 will service Air China and two dozen other airlines .
At one million square meters , T3 in Beijing is the largest terminal in the world , but was much less costly to build than T5 in London .
Using the most recent exchange rates , T3 cost only $ 3.86 billion compared with $ 8.6 billion for London &apos;s T5 .
Furthermore , T3 took less than four years to complete , whereas T5 took almost 20 years .
But to call T3 a success for socialism and T5 a failure of capitalism would be to miss a fundamental point .
After all , if China &apos;s political system can still be called socialism , it is at best &quot; socialism with Chinese characteristics , &quot; which embodies an increasing amount of market @-@ oriented economic activity and greater economic openness and transparency .
It would be similarly misleading to attribute T3 &quot; s success to China alone .
After all , T3 was designed by a Briton , and has incorporated the most recent architectural and operational trends , styles , and standards in the world .
T3 in Beijing is just one of many projects China has recently built to improve its transportation infrastructure .
In addition to having become the world &apos;s industrial park , China now has more mobile phone subscribers than the combined populations of the United States , the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia and New Zealand , and the number of Internet users has just surpassed that in the US .
All of this development raises a fundamental question : how should we make sense of the explosive productivity growth that has become China &apos;s new hallmark ?
Those who cling to old ideological stereotypes face an almost impossible task in reconciling China &apos;s rapid growth with what they condemn as China &apos;s failing system .
The truth is that ever since the end of the 1970 &quot; s , China has become convinced that peace and stability are the most important preconditions for its development .
Thus , anything that may distract China from its focus on peace , stability , and development has been strongly resisted .
This may help explain why T3 in Beijing is such a success , and why Chinese are now more united than ever before in condemning attempts to hijack or sully the Olympics for ulterior motives .
I hope that when millions of overseas passengers pass through T3 , including those who do so during the Beijing Olympics , they will pause and reflect upon the distance China has traveled over the past three decades in its reform and opening to the outside world . Granted , China still has further to go , and many people may find fault with much in the country .
But they should not refuse to acknowledge that China &apos;s mission to turn a nation of 1.3 billion poor people into a developed country through peace and free trade is one of the great , honorable , and most difficult sagas in human history .
Following the disturbances in Tibet and the troubles affecting the Olympic torch &apos;s progress around the world , some voices abroad are showing a greater inclination to dismiss , vilify , humiliate , or even split China .
But it would be best for all to pause a moment , contemplate T3 in Beijing , consider what it represents , and reflect on what an accomplishment the quick completion of such an iconic structure is for an emerging country like China .
A Thai Spring ?
BANGKOK - The thunderous results of Thailand &apos;s general election on July 3 will seem familiar to anyone attuned to the political upheaval in the Middle East and North Africa .
Entrenched incumbent regimes everywhere are under severe stress from advances in information technology , shifts in demographics , rising expectations , and the obsolescence of Cold War exigencies .
In the absence of a willingness and ability to use violent repression , regime survival can be achieved only through concessions , accommodation , and periodic reinvention .
With 47 million voters and turnout at 75 % , Thailand &apos;s latest election results pose a decisive challenge to the country &apos;s long @-@ established regime .
The Pheu Thai party , led by Yingluck Shinawatra , the youngest sister of exiled fugitive former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra , secured a resounding triumph , winning 265 seats in the 500 @-@ member assembly , while the ruling Democrat Party mustered just 159 .
The return to power of Pheu Thai is extraordinary - and not only because Yingluck will be Thailand &apos;s first female prime minister .
The establishment @-@ aligned courts dissolved the party &apos;s two previous governments , and banned scores of its leading politicians from office for five years .
Pheu Thai &apos;s victory thus suggests that a previously marginalized electorate has been permanently awakened .
A similar majority of the Thai electorate voted for Thaksin &apos;s parties and their pro @-@ poor populist platforms in January 2001 , February 2005 , April 2006 , and December 2007 , defying a military coup , a coup @-@ induced constitution , judicial interventions , and army coercion and repression .
The recent election marked a profound break from the past .
In the second half of the twentieth century , Thai elections seemed to alternate with military coups .
Voters were bought and sold like commodities . After elections , voters hardly ever saw or heard from their MPs , who typically went on to engage in corruption and graft in Bangkok - eventually losing legitimacy and paving the way for military coups .
A new constitution and elections invariably ensued .
This vicious cycle of coups , constitutions , and elections defined Thai politics for decades .
That pattern reflected Cold War imperatives .
The pillars of the Thai state - nation , religion , and the king - struck a unifying , collective chord , and the resulting stability enabled economic development .
While growth was so concentrated that popular resentment simmered , communism was kept at bay .
Challenges to the established order , with the military @-@ monarchy @-@ bureaucracy triumvirate as its anchor , were repeatedly put down .
Back then , Thai schoolchildren sang martial songs each morning , and Thais knew their place in the rigidly elitist pecking order , which was reinforced by socialization and indoctrination in classrooms and living rooms , where only state @-@ controlled media could enter .
Thais were more like obedient subjects than informed citizens .
Dissenting views found little traction .
The rise of Thaksin &apos;s Thai Rak Thai party in 2001 changed all that .
The party pursued a scientific approach to elections , relied on expensive polling by foreign experts , and offered a clear agenda and strong leadership .
It was the first post @-@ Cold War party to capture Thais &quot; collective imagination .
The voices of neglected swaths of the electorate , particularly in the rural north and northeast of the country , began to count .
Vote @-@ buying became increasingly insufficient .
A bond between party and voters - a bond based on policy - took root .
By 2001 , the Cold War was long over .
Political leaders who dissented from the status quo could no longer easily be jailed on communism @-@ related charges .
The advent of the Internet had made it harder for the authorities to shape Thai minds , as media sources multiplied and the resulting diffusion of information undermined the effectiveness of state propaganda .
Moreover , new international norms had come to the fore : external powers that previously turned a blind eye to coups , military dictatorships , and repression now rallied around democracy and human rights .
Thailand &apos;s demographics also changed .
The Cold War curriculum of induced unity and stability has no relevance for today &apos;s schoolchildren ; indeed , most university students nowadays were born after the Cold War ended .
These factors fostered a new political environment , and Thaksin , who was a telecommunications tycoon at the time , was well positioned to seize the opportunity .
He overhauled the bureaucracy , delivered on his promises to the poor , mapped out an industrial strategy , and re @-@ designed an overstretched foreign policy agenda , among other innovative measures .
Of course , Thaksin &apos;s rule had a dark underside : corruption , legislated conflicts of interest , cronyism , human rights violations , and abuse of power , among other evidence of misrule .
Such is Thaksin &apos;s mixed legacy . The opportunities , hopes , and dreams delivered to the downtrodden and the vision and plans for Thailand &apos;s future were enmeshed with his own venality .
But , while Thaksin committed many infractions , his gravest &quot; sin &quot; was to have changed the way Thais think and behave .
Some see this change as usurpation ; others view it as Thailand &apos;s deliverance into the twenty @-@ first century .
Thaksin &apos;s adversaries in Thailand &apos;s entrenched regime were unwilling to accede to his policy innovations and populism .
For them , doing so would be tantamount to admitting that most people in this hospitable , well @-@ endowed kingdom had been kept poor by design all along .
For his part , Thaksin has sought to portray the recent election results as being all about him .
But he is best viewed as a self @-@ serving , unwitting agent of political modernization .
It is these twenty @-@ first @-@ century dynamics and changes , underpinned by an increasingly assertive citizenry , with which the Thai establishment must come to terms if the country is to move forward .
A Theory of European Citizenship
There is something tragic about Europe &apos;s current development .
Democracy &apos;s march across the continent , and the formation of a single market across much of Europe , have created unprecedented stability , security , and prosperity .
The new single currency , the euro , and the European Union &apos;s promise to admit as many as ten new members in 2004 , are powerful indicators of ongoing integration .
Yet , the ability of European institutions to accommodate deeper and broader integration is increasingly undermined by the persistence of a contradictory and long @-@ obsolete ideal : the nation @-@ state as the basis of political legitimacy and sovereignty .
It is largely because the idea of common European citizenship is often understood by analogy to that of national citizenship that further European integration engenders so much fear and opposition .
The nation @-@ state in the traditional sense presupposed a citizenry that was created as competing collective identities decayed .
Venetians became Italians , Bavarians became Germans , and so on .
Nation @-@ builders throughout Europe promoted - with varying degrees of success , to be sure - the emergence of a dominant culture , an official language , and an identity based partly on distinctions vis @-@ à @-@ vis neighboring states , peoples and cultures .
National minorities everywhere faced expulsion or enormous official pressure to assimilate .
A European nation @-@ state in this sense was untenable even for the original six members of the European Community - all of them highly industrialized countries with similar social and political traditions and institutions .
It is no more feasible today for the EU &apos;s 15 members , and further enlargement means that the multitude of collective identities , cultures , languages , religions , and worldviews will become greater still .
The singular &quot; people &quot; that defines citizenship in a traditional nation @-@ state could be forged only by plunging Europe into appalling repression and war lasting generations , if not centuries .
Of course , European integration has been driven from the outset precisely by the shared historical memory of the terrible suffering wrought by aggressive nationalism .
But without an alternative to the nation @-@ state as the basis of citizenship , the legitimacy and effectiveness of EU institutions have come under growing strain .
Witness , for example , Ireland &apos;s veto of the institutional reforms adopted at the EU &apos;s Nice summit in December 2000 - reforms without which enlargement cannot go forward .
Similarly , opinion polls show that support for EU membership has fallen rapidly even in many candidate countries .
Political leaders such as Vaclav Klaus in the Czech Republic and Viktor Orban in Hungary welcome the common market , but argue that their nation @-@ states did not re @-@ gain their
Yet free movement of goods and services , labor , capital , and ideas ( the single market &apos;s &quot; four freedoms &quot; ) makes irrelevant much of what traditional European nation @-@ states do - namely , defending these freedoms within a smaller territory .
With the EU &apos;s internal borders reduced to purely administrative boundaries , this task has passed to institutions that wield immense preemptive authority over member states .
An alternative must therefore be found to a definition of citizenship that regards these institutions as merely some sort of formalized representation of member states &apos; common political will .
What should an alternative conception of European citizenship look like ?
The US model of political identity , shaped by a legacy of immigration and voluntary cultural integration , cannot be simply transposed to Europe , where distinct traditions , cultures , and attitudes are so deeply entrenched .
But a conception of citizenship that is
Indeed , this is the
Assuming that you are rational , you must calculate that you may be a member of a cultural minority .
Obviously , you will not choose rules that define citizenship in terms of a particular cultural identity .
On the contrary , you will seek to hedge your bets by ensuring that citizenship is constituted by individual rights of participation in collective projects , backed up by a legal system that guarantees these rights .
Citizenship in this sense views political sovereignty and legitimacy as features of institutions that foster
European citizenship understood in this way is compatible with a multitude of collective identities ranging from family or friendship groups to professional associations and corporations , regionally defined communities , and shared cultural , political and religious affinities . Such a conception stabilizes social cooperation within Europe because it reflects a basic normative consensus on the design of institutions and thus orients individual behavior toward preserving these institutions .
In fact , a well @-@ developed conception of democratic citizenship will always emphasize individual rights .
Citizenship is not constituted by groups , but by individuals interacting
A Thousand to One
HAIFA - The celebrations in Israel over the release of the kidnapped soldier Gilad Shalit come after the Israeli government concluded that diplomatic rarity , an agreement with Hamas .
It is as if the government had brought back an Israeli who had been sent to Mars .
Of course , other Israeli soldiers and civilians have been held captive in Arab states or abducted by terrorist organizations and other militant groups over the years . &amp; # 160 ; And Israel has been willing in the past to barter hundreds or thousands of detainees in exchange for the release of just a few of its citizens . &amp; # 160 ; But , for as long as I can remember , popular enthusiasm has never been so overwhelmingly supportive of such a deal as it is now , with the joy virtually exploding across the country after the news of Shalit &apos;s pending release began to circulate .
One reason for this outpouring of enthusiasm is clear : the Shalit family &apos;s remarkable ability to keep alive interest in his cause throughout the five years since his abduction .
Indeed , the Israeli public consistently supported the idea of the government reaching agreement with Hamas for the soldier &apos;s release .
Many Israelis , from all social classes , joined the campaign for Shalit &apos;s release .
Demonstrations and meetings were organized . &amp; # 160 ; Posters were hung everywhere to remember the number of days of his ordeal . &amp; # 160 ; But the Shalit family is given the most credit : they left their home in a small village in Galilee to camp out for more than a year near the prime minister &apos;s residence in Jerusalem , reminding the Israeli public of the victim &apos;s suffering and pushing the government to accept Hamas &apos;s conditions .
But , despite deep popular sympathy , not a few Israelis - on both the left and the right - opposed the exchange of one soldier for a thousand or more Palestinian prisoners , some of whom perpetrated terrorist attacks that killed dozens of people .
Some consider the Palestinian prisoners &quot; release a mistake , legally and ethically , and a shocking injustice to the families of their victims .
Others , more numerous , deplore the disparity in numbers in the swap .
Unlike the first group , they would be ready to accept the release of one Palestinian prisoner - even if he were responsible for the most brutal terrorist attack - but not a thousand of them .
But there is another way to look at the disparity .
Israel achieved remarkable results in the wars fought against far more populous Arab countries in 1948 , 1967 , and 1973 .
Its soldiers are well trained and rely on advanced technologies and military abilities that are superior to those of the Arab countries - and far better than those of Palestinian militant groups .
By demanding the release of more than 1,000 prisoners in exchange for one soldier , Hamas is conceding the stark military reality of this imbalance : thousands of their prisoners , fighting with knives , explosive belts , and primitive rockets , are worth only one Israeli soldier .
Israel is , of course , resigned to its numerical inferiority , and will continue to train its soldiers in order to overcome this deficit . &amp; # 160 ; As a result , one prisoner in exchange for a thousand Palestinian prisoners is neither a humiliation nor a surrender , but an acceptable agreement that acknowledges , even on behalf of the enemy , the military capacity of Israeli soldiers .
There are also those who vigorously oppose the prisoner exchange with Hamas because some of the released prisoners will return to terrorism against Israel , as has happened after past exchanges . &amp; # 160 ; The release of one Israeli soldier in exchange for such men could therefore endanger many lives in the future .
But many of the released prisoners will be transferred to the Gaza Strip , a territory that is completely separate from Israel , where they might join Hamas &apos;s militant forces but will not be able to execute terrorist attacks against Israel .
Likewise , other prisoners will be expelled to the West Bank , and will not come into contact with the Israeli population , neither in the settlements nor in Israel .
Indeed , those remaining in the West Bank will be under the supervision not only of Israeli security forces - who know everything they need to know - but also of the Palestinian Authority . &amp; # 160 ; In recent years , the Palestinian Authority has effectively prevented acts of terrorism and violence against Israelis , with the aim of stabilizing the situation in the West Bank in order to prepare for the establishment of an independent Palestinian state .
The 70 or so prisoners who will return to the West Bank could also be influenced by the positive atmosphere created by the Palestinian Authority as it awaits the resumption of negotiations to achieve a two @-@ state ( and two @-@ population ) solution .
Finally , a gleam of hope might arise from necessity .
Perhaps - just perhaps - one or even two of the released Palestinians will be willing to cooperate - and to lead others into cooperating - with an enemy that had been their jailer .
From South Africa to Burma , there are clear and positive precedents for such a turn of events .
A Time of Tests
LONDON - This is a tough time to be a decision @-@ maker .
We live in an era of low predictability .
The world appears in constant flux .
The challenges are immense .
And most of all , there is , in many instances a clash between the correct short term politics and the correct long term policy .
On the economy , the climate debate and security , the immediate pressures pretty much run one way : increase the role of government in the economy ; put the climate deal off to more congenial financial times ; and get out of substantial military commitment to fighting global terrorism .
Yet in each case the right long @-@ term policy almost certainly points to the opposite course .
What is the way to bridge this gap between short and long term ?
To decide how to do that is to decide fundamentally what we believe in and what we want from our future .
In deciding this , only the head can guide us in how to do it ; but the heart must tell us what it is we truly believe in doing .
In the economy , the near universal conventional wisdom after the collapse of the banking system , was that the market had failed and the state had to step in .
Old copies of John Kenneth Galbraith &apos;s The Great Crash of 1929 and Keynesian tracts were dusted off and avidly re @-@ read .
And it is true : the market did fail and the state had to step in .
The fiscal and monetary stimuli were important in themselves , but even more so because they indicated that the strength of government was going to be utilised to prevent contagion and further collapse .
But if we move to analysing what sort of recovery we can expect and what sort of future economy we are trying to fashion , it is by no means clear that we need a continuing , intrusive state role .
On the contrary , we need the private sector to regain its sense of enterprise , innovation and vigour ; we need to be careful of regulating so as to squeeze the availability of credit ; and we should certainly avoid protectionism .
True , the private sector will have much re @-@ structuring to go through and the big deficits have been accumulated in the crisis must be unwound .
In other words , the claim that &quot; the market failed &quot; is too alarmingly broad .
Actually , one part of the market failed , but government and regulators were part of that failure .
If we believe that this is true , it will ultimately be the creativity ( in the best sense ) of the private sector that will see us return to prosperity .
So we need to make decisions in the coming weeks and months which help the private sector and not harm it .
Likewise , in respect of the environment and energy , whatever the financial pressures , if we think that the earth &apos;s climate is probably changing as a result of human activity , we need to set the global economy on a low carbon path to the future .
This doesn &apos;t mean that we can come out with unrealistic propositions as we struggle for a new global treaty to succeed the Kyoto Protocol .
We should not make the best the enemy of the good .
There are major things we can do on the basis of existing knowledge - on deforestation , energy efficiency and renewables - to make a big difference over the next decade .
We will then require a long @-@ term framework of incentives to develop the technologies of the future .
But the point is : now is not the time to put off action .
The seriousness of China on this issue , and now India , the enthusiasm of Brazil and others in the emerging markets to participate in tackling climate change : all of this offers a huge opportunity that should be grasped .
And for the West , we should all remind ourselves about $ 100 a barrel oil .
There are exemplary reasons of energy security why we need to change the nature of our economies to drive down carbon dependence .
In security questions , the choices here are perhaps the hardest of all .
A public , understandably disheartened by the length of the current military campaigns and loss of life in Afghanistan and Iraq , is sympathetic to the idea of disengagement .
But this is also where , most of all , we need to decide what it is we truly believe in .
The reason it is hard going in Afghanistan right now , for example , is that the forces we are facing are making it so .
They are doing this by the use of terrorism and by brutal intimidation of the civilian population and in defiance of the expressed and plain will of the international community .
Time and again what is clear is that people , given the chance , do want governments that are accountable , proper rule of law and the ability to choose their own destiny .
Those using terror , whether in Afghanistan , Pakistan , Iraq , Somalia , Yemen and the list could go on and on , do so to de @-@ stabilise nations and to thwart the will of the people to live in peace .
Disengaging now will not leave people free from our interference ; it will put them at the mercy of groups whose extremism threatens the very way of life that we stand for and to which they aspire .
So no matter how difficult it is , we should remember what it is we believe in and why .
So now is a moment , even amongst all the uncertainty , for some clarity and that clarity comes best from a worked out strategy based on a strong set of convictions .
A Time to Build
Any good international investment banker knows that the end of April is a bad time to come peddling his services , for that is when the world &apos;s finance ministers return home from the IMF meetings in Washington , chastened that risks to the global economy could spill over into their own backyards .
Ministers are too busy recovering from their trauma to think about paying fat fees for big new international bond issues .
Who wants to build up debt if there might be a financial crisis around the corner ? Better to keep socking away US Treasury bills , even if the return is far lower than on most other investments .
Or is it ?
With today &apos;s global economy in the middle of a sustained and increasingly balanced expansion , has the time come to start considering upside risks ?
In particular , should governments , especially those that are endlessly building up dollar reserves , instead start thinking about how to build up their roads , bridges , ports , electric grids , and other infrastructure ?
Has the time come to start laying the groundwork to sustain future growth , especially in poorer regions that have not yet shared in today &apos;s prosperity ?
Don &apos;t get me wrong , I am not arguing for fiscal profligacy .
But the balance of risks has shifted over the past few years .
Yes , within the next three to five years , there will probably be another global recession .
And , yes , there will probably be another rash of financial crises - perhaps in Central Europe , which now looks like Asia did before its 1997 crisis .
Recent jitters about Iceland &apos;s gaping trade deficit and Brazil &apos;s new finance minister rippled around the world , reminding global investors that while many emerging markets are gradually moving towards investment @-@ grade status , most are not there yet .
But the risks are two @-@ sided , and sound economic policy is just as much about capitalizing on good times as avoiding bad ones .
Economic gurus at places like the World Bank have developed a ridiculously long list of steps that countries should take to raise their growth rates ( the so @-@ called &quot; extended Washington Consensus &quot; ) .
Like maintaining good health , it is not enough to concentrate on a single component .
But if there is one area where obvious opportunities exist , and where policy can really make a difference , it would have to be infrastructure investment .
India &apos;s infrastructure problems are legendary , with airports and railroads that are comically inadequate .
However , aside from a few countries - including China , of course , but also Spain - low infrastructure spending is epidemic .
Even the United States has infrastructure that is hobbled by neglect , with collapsing bridges and a dangerously overburdened electrical grid .
Land @-@ rich Brazil , too , is a case study in the consequences of under @-@ investment .
Its infrastructure systems might be adequate to support the country &apos;s tepid 3 @-@ 4 % growth rates , but they are hardly adequate to support the 6 @-@ 7 % rates that it ought to be enjoying amidst the current global boom .
Russia , despite Siberia &apos;s massive oil and gas riches , isn &apos;t even investing enough to support healthy growth in its energy industries , much less human development in the country &apos;s impoverished areas ( including hapless Siberia ) .
True , government infrastructure spending is often wasted .
My hometown of Boston recently managed to spend an astounding $ 15 billion dollars to move a few highways underground . And that so @-@ called &quot; Big Dig &quot; looks like a model of efficiency next to many of Japan &apos;s infamous bridges to nowhere .
But there are ways to waste less .
Transparency in procurement works wonders .
So , too , does private sector involvement .
The Nobel laureate economist William Vickrey argued tirelessly in favor of privately financed toll roads .
Private oversight can often produce better and more efficient construction , and , in theory , toll roads help alleviate traffic congestion .
( Ironically , Vickery died while sitting in a traffic jam . )
Even China , which has added more than 50,000 kilometers of roads and dozens of airports over the past five years , makes use of private financing .
True , countries that have not cleaned up their fiscal act , such as India , must not recklessly plunge ahead with big government projects without counterbalancing reforms to ensure sustainability .
Fiscal prudence and stable inflation rates are cornerstones of today &apos;s relatively healthy global economic environment .
But for countries that have scope to invest more , particularly those that are holding a surfeit of precious development dollars in idle US Treasury bills , the time may be ripe to reassess the balance of risks .
The IMF is absolutely right to remind ministers each April of downside risks .
Countries &quot; need for better infrastructure is no license to throw prudence out the window .
But when the world &apos;s finance ministers recover from their April shock therapy , they also need to look at the opportunities .
A Time to Dare
NEW YORK - The upcoming G @-@ 20 meeting is a make @-@ or @-@ break event .
Unless it introduces practical measures to support the countries at the periphery of the global financial system , global markets will suffer another round of decline , just as they did after United States Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner &apos;s failure in February to produce practical measures to recapitalize America &apos;s banking system .
The current financial crisis is different from all the others we have experienced since World War II .
On previous occasions , whenever the financial system came to the brink of a breakdown , the authorities got their act together and pulled it back from the brink . This time the system actually broke down in the aftermath of Lehman Brothers &quot; collapse last September , and it had to be put on artificial life support .
Among other measures , both Europe and the US have effectively guaranteed that no other important financial institution will be allowed to fail .
This step was necessary , but it produced unintended adverse consequences : many other countries , from Eastern Europe to Latin America , Africa , and Southeast Asia , could not offer similarly convincing guarantees .
Abetted by the determination of national financial authorities at the center of the world economy to protect their own institutions , capital fled from the periphery .
Currencies fell , interest rates rose , and credit default swaps soared .
When the history of this crisis is written , it will be recorded that - in contrast to the Great Depression - protectionism first prevailed in finance rather than trade .
The International Financial Institutions ( IFIs ) are now faced with a novel task : to protect the periphery countries from a storm that emanated from the center .
They are used to dealing with governments ; now they must learn to deal with the collapse of the private sector .
If they fail to do so , the periphery economies will suffer even more than those at the center .
Countries on the periphery tend to be poorer and more dependent on commodities than the more developed world , and they must repay more than $ 1.4 trillion in bank loans in 2009 alone . These loans cannot be rolled over without international assistance .
British Prime Minister Gordon Brown recognized the problem and placed it on the G @-@ 20 &quot; s agenda .
But , in the course of preparations , profound attitudinal differences have surfaced , particularly between the US and Germany .
The US has recognized that only using the credit of the state to the fullest extent possible can reverse the collapse of credit in the private sector .
Germany , traumatized by the memory of hyperinflation in the 1920 &quot; s and the consequent rise of Hitler in the 1930 &quot; s , is reluctant to sow the seeds of future inflation by incurring too much debt .
Both positions are firmly held and can be buttressed by arguments that are valid from the point of view of the country concerned .
But the controversy threatens to disrupt the April 2 meeting .
It should be possible for each side to respect the other &apos;s position without abandoning its own
As things stand now , the G @-@ 20 meeting will produce some concrete results : the resources of the International Monetary Fund are likely to be effectively doubled , mainly by using the mechanism of the New Arrangement to Borrow ( NAB ) , which can be activated without resolving the vexing question of reapportioning voting rights in the IFIs .
This will be sufficient to enable the IMF to come to the aid of specific countries in trouble , but it will not provide a systemic solution without conditionality .
Such a solution is readily available in the form of Special Drawing Rights ( SDR ) .
The mechanism exists and has already been used on a small scale .
SDRs are highly complicated and difficult to grasp , but they boil down to the international creation of money .
Countries that are in a position to create their own money do not need them , but the periphery countries do .
Rich countries should therefore lend their allocations to the countries in need .
This would not create a budget deficit for rich countries .
Recipient countries would have to pay the IMF a very low interest rate : the composite average treasury bill rate of all convertible currencies .
They would have free use of their own allocations , but the IFIs would supervise how the borrowed allocations are used to ensure that the borrowed funds are well spent .
It is difficult to think of a scheme where the cost / benefit ratio is so favorable .
In addition to the one @-@ time increase in the IMF &apos;s resources , there ought to be substantial annual SDR issues , say , $ 250 billion , as long as the global recession lasts .
To make the scheme counter @-@ cyclical , the SDR issues could be callable in tranches when the global economy overheats .
It is too late to agree on issuing SDRs at the upcoming G @-@ 20 meeting , but if it were proposed by President Barack Obama and endorsed in principle by the majority of participants , it would be sufficient to give heart to the markets and make the meeting a resounding success .
A Time to Experiment
CAMBRIDGE - The world economy enters 2009 with more uncertainty ( and anxiety ) than at any time in recent memory .
Although the financial crisis appears to be contained in the United States and Europe , its full repercussions will not be clear for some time .
The advanced countries are in for the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression .
But how long and deep will this recession be , and how badly will it affect emerging and developing nations ?
We don &apos;t have the answers to these questions , in part because the consequences will depend on what actions policymakers take .
The right responses will ensure that the world economy can begin to recover by late 2009 .
Poor policy choices , on the other hand , will at best delay recovery and at worst do permanent damage .
Here is a list of things to watch for .
Will the US response be &quot; bold &quot; enough ?
Barack Obama has promised that it will be , echoing at least part of Franklin D. Roosevelt &apos;s famous call for &quot; bold , persistent experimentation &quot; at the height of the Great Depression in 1932 .
Obama has a first @-@ rate group of economists on his side , which ensures that he will not do anything silly .
But America &apos;s circumstances are sufficiently exceptional that he will need advisers who are willing to try new , untested ideas - in other words , experimentation à la FDR .
In particular , he will need to go beyond Keynesian fiscal @-@ stimulus policies to heal the deep wounds to economic confidence that lie at the root of the current crisis .
So far , confidence @-@ building measures have been limited to financial markets , through public guarantees , liquidity support , and capital injections .
But workers who worry about being laid off are unlikely to go spend , regardless of how much money fiscal stimulus puts in their pockets .
Just as banks are hoarding cash , households will try to preserve wealth by increasing their saving .
So incentives targeted directly at preserving employment will have to be part of the solution .
Will Europe get its act together ?
This could have been Europe &apos;s moment .
After all , the crisis originated in the US and left American policy focused on its domestic troubles , opening up room for global leadership by others .
Instead , the crisis demonstrated the deep divisions within Europe - on everything from financial regulation to the requisite policy response .
Germany has dragged its feet on fiscal stimulus , stymieing what should have been the second leg of a globally coordinated fiscal action plan .
If Europe wants to pull its weight on the global stage , it will have to act with greater unity of purpose and shoulder a greater share of responsibility .
Alas , the best that can be hoped for at this stage is that Europe will not undermine the global fiscal stimulus that even the International Monetary Fund , the guardian of fiscal orthodoxy , regards as absolutely essential .
Will China hold together ?
Even though a weak US response is the biggest risk on the economic side , what happens in China may well have deeper and more lasting consequences on the broader historical canvas .
For China is a country of enormous hidden tensions and cleavages , and these may erupt into open conflict in difficult economic times .
Experts on China differ on the rate of economic growth needed to create employment for the millions of Chinese who flock into the country &apos;s cities every year .
But it is virtually certain that China will fall short of this threshold in 2009 .
This explains the almost continuous stream of measures that emanate from Beijing these days : increased public spending , monetary easing , pressure on state enterprises to expand activity , subsidies to exporters , partial convertibility of the remninbi to spur trade with neighboring countries , and so on . But will this do enough to stem the slowdown in an economy that has become hooked on external demand in recent years ?
If social tensions rise , China &apos;s government is likely to respond with greater repression , which will bode ill both for its relations with the West and for its medium @-@ term political stability .
Experience shows that democracies hold the edge over authoritarian regimes when it comes to handling the fallout from crises .
It was democratic India ( in 1991 ) and South Korea ( in 1997 @-@ 1998 ) that turned around their economies quickly , while Pinochet &apos;s Chile ( in 1983 ) and Suharto &apos;s Indonesia ( in 1997 @-@ 98 ) fell into deeper quagmires .
Authoritarian regimes lack the institutions of conflict management that democracies provide .
So tensions spill over into the streets and take the form of riots and protests .
However the Chinese leadership responds , future generations may remember 2009 less for its global economic and financial crisis than for the momentous transformation that it caused in China .
Will there be enough global economic cooperation ?
When domestic needs become paramount , global economic cooperation suffers .
But the costs of protectionism in trade and finance are especially large at moments like these .
The Great Depression was aggravated by the trade barriers that countries imposed to protect domestic employment .
This will be a temptation this time around as well .
And banks - whether explicitly nationalized or not - will be under pressure to prioritize domestic borrowers .
So far , the IMF has reacted with newfound vigor , establishing a much @-@ needed short @-@ term lending facility , which may well need to be expanded if emerging markets come under greater pressure .
The World Trade Organization , meanwhile , has wasted valuable time on the irrelevant Doha round .
It should have focused its efforts on monitoring and implementing the G @-@ 20 &quot; s commitment not to raise trade barriers .
Policymakers need to shed received wisdom and forget useless dichotomies such as &quot; markets versus government &quot; or &quot; nation @-@ state versus globalization . &quot;
They need to come to grips with the reality that national regulations and international markets are inextricably linked with - and in need of - each other .
The more pragmatically and creatively they act , the more quickly the world economy will recover .
A Time to Spend
BERKELEY - The central insight of macroeconomics is a fact that was known to John Stuart Mill in the first third of the nineteenth century : there can be a large gap between supply and demand for pretty much all currently produced goods and services and types of labor if there is an equally large excess demand for financial assets .
And this fundamental fact is a source of big trouble .
A normal gap between supply and demand for some subset of currently produced commodities is not a serious problem , because it is balanced by excess demand for other currently produced commodities .
As industries suffering from insufficient demand shed workers , industries benefiting from surplus demand hire them .
The economy rapidly rebalances itself and thus returns to full employment - and does so with a configuration of employment and production that is better adapted to current consumer preferences .
By contrast , a gap between supply and demand when the corresponding excess demand is for financial assets is a recipe for economic meltdown .
There is , after all , no easy way that unemployed workers can start producing the assets - money and bonds that not only are rated investment @-@ grade , but really are - that financial markets are not adequately supplying .
The flow of workers out of employment exceeds the flow back into employment .
And , as employment and incomes drop , spending on currently produced commodities drops further , and the economy spirals down into depression .
Thus , the first principle of macroeconomic policy is that because only the government can create the investment @-@ grade financial assets that are in short supply in a depression , it is the government &apos;s task to do so .
The government must ensure that the money supply matches the full @-@ employment level of money demand , and that the supply of safe savings vehicles in which investors can park their wealth also meets demand .
How well have the world &apos;s governments performed this task over the past three years ?
In East Asia ( minus Japan ) , governments appear to have been doing rather well .
Shortage of demand for currently produced goods and services and mass unemployment no longer loom as the region &apos;s biggest macroeconomic problems .
Flooding their economies with liquidity , maintaining export @-@ friendly exchange rates , and spending to employ workers directly and boost the supply of safe savings vehicles have made the Great Recession in East Asia less dire than it has been elsewhere .
In North America , governments appear to have muddled through .
They have not provided enough bank guarantees , forced enough mortgage renegotiations , increased spending enough , or financed enough employment to rebalance financial markets , return asset prices to normal configurations , and facilitate a rapid return to full employment .
But unemployment has not climbed far above 10 % , either .
The most serious problems right now are in Europe .
Uncertainty about how , exactly , the liabilities of highly leveraged banks and over @-@ leveraged peripheral governments are to be guaranteed is shrinking the supply of safe savings vehicles at a time when macroeconomic rebalancing calls for it to be rising .
And the rapid reductions in budget deficits that European governments are now pledged to undertake can only increase the likelihood of a full double @-@ dip recession .
The broad pattern is clear : the more that governments have worried about enabling future moral hazard by excessive bailouts and sought to stem the rise in public debt , the worse their countries &quot; economies have performed .
The more that they have focused on policies to put people back to work in the short run , the better their economies have done .
This pattern would not have surprised nineteenth @-@ century economists like Mill or Walter Bagehot , who understood the financial @-@ sector origins of industrial depression .
But it does seem to surprise not only a great many observers today , but also a large number of policymakers .
A Tribute to Evil
In May , the world will mark the 60th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe .
But instead of happily preparing for that occasion , the Baltic countries of Estonia , Latvia , and Lithuania - which scarcely 15 years ago regained the independence they lost in WWII - are uneasy .
The heads of state of all three countries have been invited to participate in the parades to be held in Moscow to celebrate the Red Army &apos;s victory over Nazi Germany .
But the host of the celebration , Russia , in the guise of the Soviet Union , itself caused the war - the bloodiest in European history - whose end is being commemorated .
Of course , the USSR instigated the war in tandem with Adolf Hitler , but its responsibility is undeniable .
By holding these celebrations in Red Square , and thus highlighting the Soviet victory , today &apos;s Russia is also celebrating its gains in that war .
One of those gains was my country , Lithuania , whose incorporation into Stalin &apos;s empire was accompanied by countless tragedies .
Unlike Germany , Russia has never recognized its responsibility for the war and the mass graves of the innocent .
Thus , a former captive nation is now being invited to celebrate its captivity .
This is why almost all Lithuanians - indeed , most residents of the Baltic countries - feel queasy at the prospect of their leaders marking this anniversary in Moscow .
But Estonians , Latvians , and Lithuanians are not the only Europeans who should feel this way .
When Stalin offered Hitler his friendship in the spring of 1939 - formally concluded that summer in the Molotov @-@ Ribbentrop Pact - Nazi aggression was assured of not being knifed in the back from the East and so was left with free hands to do as Hitler pleased in the West .
The Pact came after the pogroms of &quot; Kristallnacht &quot; in Germany , so its Soviet initiators knew pretty well to what destiny they were consigning the Jews of Poland and Lithuania , which , in accord with the first secret Protocol signed by Ribbentrop and Molotov on August 23 , 1939 , were to go to Hitler .
A month later , in equal secrecy , Hitler sold Lithuania to Stalin .
The other countries situated between Germany and the USSR were similarly sentenced to disappear as nations - sooner or later .
Their peoples were treated practically as though they did not exist ; the aggressors &quot; only concern was territory .
The death sentences and torturing that were then imposed on almost entire nations and millions of people are , it now appears , to be silently accepted and noisily celebrated on May 9 in Moscow .
Some Russian officials want to unveil a monument Stalin to crown the festivities .
When Hitler &apos;s Wehrmacht struck West , the USSR duly supported Germany in its war against Poland , France , Belgium , the Netherlands , Luxembourg , Denmark , Norway , and the United Kingdom .
As a result , cities in those countries were flattened and people killed not only by the Nazis , but also by their Soviet ally , which invaded Poland and supplied the Wehrmacht with the material it needed for its war against the West .
In return , Stalin &apos;s USSR was given a free hand to attack Finland and to occupy Estonia , Latvia , and Lithuania , as well as a part of Romania .
In law , when two criminals seal a contract with the blood of their victims , that act remains a crime , even if the two criminals later have a falling out and spray bullets at one another .
The same applies to the two greatest European criminals of the twentieth century .
We must not forget the crimes that Hitler and Stalin committed together as de facto allies only because they later turned on each other .
The blood of WWII &apos;s victims calls for justice and fairness , but most of all it demands honesty about who and what caused their tragic fate .
If those who gather in Moscow on May 9 do anything to validate Soviet war crimes , they will show themselves insensitive to the silent cries of WWII &apos;s tens of millions of dead innocents .
The only real winner would be the spirit of that evil .
A Tribute to James Wolfensohn
Over the past decade , the global economy has achieved unprecedented prosperity built on trade , international capital flows , and technological innovation .
Amidst this undeniable progress , however , remain widespread poverty , disease , and illiteracy .
In a world made smaller by modern telecommunications , satellite TV , and the Internet , the vast challenges of development that we continue to face confront us everyday .
Perhaps no individual has done more to raise the alarm - earning deserved credit for many successes and understanding all too clearly the remaining shortcomings - than James Wolfensohn , the outgoing President of the World Bank .
As Managing Director of the IMF , I have had the privilege of working closely with Jim Wolfensohn , seeing up close a man with an extraordinary mission : the sustainable reduction of global poverty .
Wolfensohn left a successful business career to lead the global campaign against poverty .
It is perhaps the ultimate tribute to his commitment and tenacity that his efforts over the past 10 years have attracted criticism as well as praise , for he has stood at the center of every major campaign aimed at alleviating the economic ills of our generation .
Wolfensohn led the World Bank onto the cutting edge of every important development debate , and was at the forefront of the effort to combat HIV / AIDS , as well as other deadly diseases that threaten so many impoverished countries .
He has been a forthright spokesman for women &apos;s rights and a champion of environmental concerns , as well as a formidable advocate in arguing for debt reduction for the most heavily indebted nations .
He also has placed the World Bank at the center of the effort to help rebuild nations emerging from devastating civil conflict , from Bosnia to Sierra Leone to East Timor .
As World Bank president , Wolfensohn argued consistently that the world cannot be divided into &quot; haves &quot; and &quot; have @-@ nots . &quot;
Poverty anywhere means poverty everywhere , and equitable growth is needed for the stability and security of all .
Indeed , that is the true meaning of globalization .
At the same time , Wolfensohn made a big contribution to development work by arguing that poverty must be treated as a multidimensional problem .
It is now widely accepted that financial assistance alone will not bring about effective poverty reduction .
Rather , sustainable , pro @-@ poor growth is the key , requiring political stability - that is , peace and security for individuals - good governance , and ownership of policies by all stakeholders .
Under Wolfensohn , the World Bank followed through on this comprehensive and coordinated approach in a concrete fashion , making significant inroads into global poverty .
In the last 10 years , the Bank was the largest external financier of primary education , basic health care , HIV / AIDS programs , and programs aimed at protecting the environment and biodiversity .
This agenda goes to the heart of improving human dignity and maintaining sustainable development .
Wolfensohn &apos;s insistence that corruption be confronted as part of the development process was another valuable step forward .
It used to be that even mentioning corruption in some official circles was considered taboo .
But corruption poses the single largest obstacle to growth and development in many countries , especially as it diverts resources from the poor .
The World Bank insisted that corruption be seen as a cancer , and that fighting it be made synonymous with fighting poverty .
Indeed , outspokenness was a hallmark of Wolfensohn &apos;s tenure .
Many a government minister , Bank officer and NGO representative has experienced his blunt criticism , as well as his effusive praise .
The IMF has not been immune to this treatment .
The strength of the Bretton Woods institutions lies in intellectual diversity , and the Fund benefited from Wolfensohn &apos;s honesty , as well as from his commitment to Bank @-@ Fund cooperation , which progressively deepened during the past decade .
The work of our two institutions - in areas as diverse as poverty reduction strategies , debt relief , and the unheralded joint program to analyze financial sectors in our member countries - strengthened the global economy .
Ultimately , development is about people .
Jim Wolfensohn &apos;s greatest strength has been his genuine caring for the world &apos;s poor .
His legacy will include a World Bank that is firmly committed to a world free of poverty .
The poor around the world may feel poorer from losing him as their champion and advocate .
In fact , their prospects are brighter because of his work over the past decade .
A Triumph for &quot; Old Europe &quot;
Italy may have defeated France to win the World Cup , but the real winner was the &quot; Old Europe &quot; that Donald Rumsfeld once derided .
After all , who would have predicted a World Cup final between France and Italy ?
It looks as if the national teams of the two &quot; sick men of Europe , &quot; felt obliged to change their countries &quot; images in the world .
In the Italian case , following the corruption scandals that have nearly sunk Il Calcio , Italy &apos;s premier football league , the national team had to rehabilitate the game in the eyes of their fellow citizens .
More globally , however , it is as if &quot; Old Europe &quot; had decided that it was time to set the record straight and prove more dynamic than the world &apos;s emerging forces .
Indeed , in the new global balance , where football has become much more than sport , Europe is back with a vengeance .
What has been unfolding in front of our eyes in the last four weeks has been a modern and reduced version of the balance @-@ of @-@ power system that dominated Europe and the world in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries .
If football and its culminating moment , the World Cup , has become the universal religion of the global age , this is above all because it fulfills , in a non @-@ spiritual way , contradictory instincts in human nature .
Football magnifies the cult of the individual and the glorification of the hero , but it is also a celebration of the cooperative team spirit .
More than any other collective activity , it channels the search for identity and identification that dominates our age .
Thanks to the World Cup , one is a citizen of the world , enjoying a spectacle together with billions of others on &quot; Planet Soccer . &quot;
Even in Washington , where I arrived at the beginning of the tournament , I was greeted at the airport by television screens showing the game .
The program was in English , but the advertisements were in Spanish .
In terms of football at least , the Hispanic community &apos;s influence has brought the United States closer to Europe ( though not , of course , in its team &apos;s performance on the pitch ) .
At the same time , during the World Cup , fans are not only universal ; they are also unique , and they can express their difference with impunity , sometimes in the most assertive , aggressive , and , unfortunately , occasionally racist manner .
In a world of &quot; multiple identities , &quot; to choose one &apos;s team is in part to decide who one is .
From this standpoint , this year &apos;s World Cup has not only witnessed the triumph of European nations - all semi @-@ finalists were European for the first time since 1982 - but also the absence of even a glimmer of European emotions .
In my country , France , most supporters were clearly motivated more by post @-@ colonial references than by European allegiance .
African teams , except when they were playing against France , were favored over those from the European Union .
As I watched the Croatia @-@ Australia match early in the tournament , I surprised myself , too , as I realized that my emotions were with the Australian team , whatever that could mean , given that there were so many Croatians playing for Australia .
This deep search for identification should not be confused with a simple surge of nationalism .
Reality is more complex .
And this is not only because many coaches of the national teams are , like in the good old days , &quot; foreign mercenaries , &quot; with this Cup &apos;s Swiss guards including the Brazilian coaches of Japan and Portugal , the Swedish coach of England , and the French coach of Tunisia .
The Cup &apos;s explosions of proud nationalism hide more tortured realities .
Nostalgia is not what it used to be .
In 1998 , when France won the Cup for the first time , the three colors of the French flag ( blue , white , and red ) were celebrated alongside with the three colors ( &quot; black , white , and
Indeed , after the violent episodes of the last year , France &apos;s immigrant communities have a very different message to deliver : &quot; Without us , you would not have had this World Cup success .
Do you believe you can continue to ostracize the communities from which your soccer heroes come ? &quot;
From ping @-@ pong diplomacy with China to the united German Olympic team that competed in 1990 before actual reunification , sport has prefigured political developments , and politicians everywhere have seized on the importance of the World Cup .
Football success has become part of countries &quot; &quot; soft power . &quot;
France may not have the military might of the US or the growth rate of China and India , but its team reached the World Cup championship , raising its standing in the eyes of billions of people - and perhaps giving a reprieve to its unpopular government .
But sport can also become a kind of gigantic , distracting screen behind which nasty regimes do outrageous things - the very opposite of the Olympic and World Cup spirit .
As the world was watching the football games in Germany , North Korea was testing long @-@ range missiles and Palestinians in the governing Hamas launched attacks on Israel that prompted a bloody invasion of Gaza .
The World Cup is drama , excitement , a dream , but it is also a form of &quot; global escapism . &quot;
Football may explain the world , but it does not improve it .
And now we are back to reality .
A Turning Point for Europe \ u0027s Constitution
For the past several weeks , attention was focused on the war in Iraq and on the fault lines within Europe that the conflict exposed .
But at the same time--perhaps because no one was looking--a critical breakthrough occurred in the Convention for the Future of Europe , where the European Union &apos;s new constitution is being framed .
Representatives of 16 countries--Austria , Ireland , Portugal , the three Scandinavian countries , and the ten states that will join the EU in May 2004--submitted a proposal , in the form of a declaration , that calls for preserving the EU &apos;s current delicate institutional balance .
They recommend retaining the European Commission as the proto @-@ executive branch , the European Council to speak for national interests , and the European Parliament as the institution that represents Europe &apos;s citizens directly .
They reaffirm member states &apos; equality by defending the Council &apos;s rotating presidency .
But , in addition to avoiding destructive changes , the proposal suggests a way forward for the Convention .
Specifically , it recommends a way to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the Commission by allowing its president to be elected either by the Parliament or by an electoral college that also includes representatives from national parliaments .
This proposal is far superior to its predecessors .
Germany and France have proposed a system with two elected presidents--a Council president elected by its members and a Commission president elected by the European Parliament .
This is a strikingly bad idea .
Creating a two @-@ headed executive of this sort would guarantee continuous clashes between the two power centers .
The &quot; Gang of 16 &quot; is absolutely right that the EU should have a single president , not two .
In a world of internal and external security threats , the EU will need a stronger executive capable of reacting quickly to unfolding events .
If the Council presidency continues to rotate , then the logical entity to vest with executive authority is the president of the Commission .
But currently the president of the Commission is remote and inadequately accountable to his ultimate constituents .
Fundamental political reform is needed .
Unfortunately , the proposal fails to choose between the two alternatives for reform that it presents : election of the Commission president by the European Parliament or by an electoral college that also includes representatives from national parliaments .
At first sight , these two options may seem similar .
They are not .
The first alternative would steer the EU toward a parliamentary form of government , with the European Parliament entitled to both appoint and remove the Commission through a confidence vote .
The electoral college method , however , could be a first step toward a presidential form of government .
The path to a parliamentary model is more familiar in Europe , and at first it may appear safer .
But in the long run it could become very slippery .
Given Europe &apos;s political heterogeneity , the European Parliament is unlikely to be ruled by a single @-@ party majority .
A European Commission accountable to a divided European Parliament would thus be bogged down by the usual inefficiencies of coalition governments .
By contrast , a European Commission that is directly elected would have great legitimacy , as well as being insulated from political fights inside the European Parliament , thereby increasing its political effectiveness .
The main problem is that a directly elected Commission President might be premature : Europe may not be ready for such a radical change .
This is why the electoral college idea is so important : it allows for a gradual transition towards a regime that is desirable in the long run .
An electoral college would allocate seats to each country in proportion to its population , and each candidate would receive electoral college votes proportional to the vote taken in that country , either by universal suffrage or in the national parliament .
This would force presidential candidates to campaign with equal energy in all countries .
Even better , the power to select the members of the electoral college should be given to national parliaments alone .
National parliaments have more legitimacy , attracting far higher voter turnout than elections to the European Parliament .
Europe would be brought closer to its citizens and national parliaments would gain a direct voice in EU decision making .
But delegates to the Convention should not stop there .
Countries should be given the option of allocating their electoral college votes via either universal suffrage or a vote in the national parliament .
The system could evolve toward one of direct election without having to amend the constitution .
Ultimately , the President of the Commission would be accountable directly to voters .
This is how the US gradually evolved into a presidential democracy , towards the mid @-@ 19
Delegates to the Convention should keep in mind the provision of the Socratic Oath that reminds physicians , &quot; First do no harm . &quot;
Beyond that , they can do genuine good by recognizing the merit of the proposal for an electoral college .
Xi in Russia
MOSCOW - The atmospherics surrounding Xi Jinping &apos;s coming trip to Russia - his first visit to a foreign country as China &apos;s new president - remind me of a slogan from my early childhood in the late 1950 &quot; s : &quot; Russia @-@ China , Friendship Forever . &quot; The irony is that , even in that slogan &apos;s heyday , Sino @-@ Russian relations were deteriorating fast , culminating in spasms of combat along the Amur River in Siberia less than a decade later .
Is that slogan more valid now ?
After China opened up its economy and Russia emerged from the Soviet Union , bilateral relations entered a new stage .
Goodwill now prevails , but some of the old suspicions linger - and some new ones have emerged .
Xi &apos;s visit is not expected to usher in any breakthroughs .
A few deals to export Russian hydrocarbons to China can be expected , but not much more .
Nonetheless , the visit will highlight several important features of the bilateral relationship .
For starters , both the Russian and Chinese governments can afford to downplay the significance of their ties with the United States .
China views Russia as its strategic rear - and perhaps a base - in its escalating rivalry with the US ( though not yet as an ally ) .
Russia &apos;s leaders view Sino @-@ American competition as a welcome addition to their country &apos;s strategic weight , which , unlike China &apos;s , is not being augmented by robust economic growth .
The more the US challenges the inevitable expansion of China &apos;s &quot; security perimeter , &quot; the better for Russia , or so the Kremlin &apos;s strategists appear to believe .
Meanwhile , the Sino @-@ Russian relationship has achieved an unprecedented degree of warmth .
The Chinese are doing almost everything possible to placate Russian concerns .
The old border disputes have been silenced .
The volume of trade is growing rapidly .
Moreover , there has been no Chinese demographic expansion into Siberia , though many journalists and pundits have been peddling that story .
The number of Chinese residing in Russia - whether officially or clandestinely - amounts to 300,000 .
Many more Chinese lived in the Russian Empire before the 1917 revolution .
But , beneath the surface , unease in the bilateral relationship persists , partly for historical reasons .
Nationalist Chinese remember imperial Russia &apos;s conquests , while many Russians have a morbid fear of the &quot; yellow peril , &quot; even though the Mongols conquered and reigned in China , while they were eventually repelled from Russia ( not to mention that the Chinese never invaded Russia ) .
The more important reasons for the unease are the negative demographic trends in Russia &apos;s far @-@ eastern Trans @-@ Baikal region , and the fear - shared by all of China &apos;s neighbors - of overweening Chinese power .
Indeed , the pundits have a point : if the current economic near @-@ stagnation in Siberia persists , the world will witness a second , epic edition of Finlandization , this time in the east .
That might not be the worst scenario a country could face , but it is not the most pleasant prospect for Russians , given their deeply ingrained sense of their status as a great power .
This scenario is not inevitable , and it certainly will not be on the minds of Xi and Russian President Vladimir Putin when they meet in Moscow .
China is in the throes of an identity crisis as it faces an almost inevitable economic slowdown and the need to implement a new growth model .
Russia , meanwhile , is clearly suffering from an even deeper identity crisis .
It somehow survived the post @-@ Soviet shock , and has now recovered .
Yet , for the last six years or so , Russia has been in a kind of limbo , with no strategy , no goals , and no elite consensus on a vision for the future .
For Sino @-@ Russian relations , such fundamental uncertainties may be a blessing .
Both leaders can count on the other not to create additional problems , and even to help passively on geopolitical questions .
On Syria , for example , the two countries have shown that we are indeed living in a multipolar world .
And those new oil and gas deals will buttress both economies .
In the long term , Sino @-@ Russian relations will depend largely on whether Russia overcomes its current stagnation and , among other steps , starts to develop the vast water and other resources of the Trans @-@ Baikal region .
To do so , capital and technology will be needed not only from China , but also from Japan , South Korea , the US , and Southeast Asian countries .
The Trans @-@ Baikal region could relatively easily expand ties with the resource @-@ hungry Asian economies , to the benefit of all .
Even the labor problem is solvable , with millions of workers from former Soviet Central Asia - and perhaps from a gradually liberalizing North Korea - able to take part in the ambitious development that will be needed .
But the first step is to start to create conditions in the region that make living and working there attractive to Russians .
The Asia @-@ Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Vladivostok last year created a mere enclave of development .
A growth strategy for the whole region is yet to come .
If it does not , the current Sino @-@ Russian entente cordiale is almost certain to sour .
Russia will start to feel vulnerable , and will be pushed toward either geopolitical brinkmanship or submission to China &apos;s will .
At this point , however , relations between China and Russia appear to be far better than the mythical friendship of my childhood .
Putin and Xi will do everything to emphasize that .
A Two @-@ State Solution for Palestine ?
In 1947 Palestinian Arabs and their allies rejected a UN proposal to partition Palestine into a Jewish state and an Arab state , just as ten years before they rejected a similar partitioning proposed by the Peel Commission .
More recently , both at Camp David and at Taba in Egypt , Arab negotiators again rejected proposals that would have led to the creation of a Palestinian state alongside Israel .
Apparently , many Palestinian Arabs , and much of the Arab world , continue to think that they can do better than a two @-@ state solution .
After decades of conflict , it seems that the Arabs have not given up their goal of making all of Palestine into an Arab state .
True , Arab leaders differ over tactics .
From time to time Arab negotiators enter into discussions about the mundane issues that prospective neighboring states would need to resolve , such as political boundaries , security arrangements , and economic relations .
It is possible that at some point the Arabs will agree among themselves that the creation of a Palestinian state that claims to be committed to peaceful coexistence with Israel will be a useful tactic .
American and European governments seem willing to use the carrot of economic aid to encourage this development , in the way that the US pays off Egypt and Jordan to acquiesce in the existence of Israel .
But , unless the Arabs reconcile themselves to the permanent reality of a Jewish state in Palestine , the creation of a Palestinian Arab state will not provide more than the temporary palliative of a tenuous truce between Arabs and Jews .
The Zionist project of creating a Jewish state in Palestine entails a return of the Jewish people to their ancestral homeland , a land in which Jews lived since biblical times and which the Diaspora never abandoned .
Whether or not this historical justification for Israel &apos;s creation is convincing , the important fact is that the Palestinian Arabs and their allies do not buy it .
Arabs express their disdain for Zionism by equating the Zionist project to the creation of a colony , to which millions of Jewish settlers have come .
According to this equation the conflict between Jews and Arabs replicates the conflicts between colonial settlers and indigenous peoples .
If the Arabs believe their own argument that Zionism is colonialism , with themselves as the victims , then , whether or not anybody else accepts this view , the lessons that the Arabs glean from colonial experiences become relevant to prospects for peace between Arabs and Israelis .
Over the years Israeli governments encouraged Arabs to participate in Israel &apos;s economy .
This policy , which Israelis view to be benevolent , supposes that economic integration of Arabs and Jews is possible without modifying the Zionist concept of Israel as a Jewish state .
But , from the Arab perspective this policy reinforces their equating of Zionism to colonialism .
Arab rhetoric often takes the colonial experiences of Algeria and South Africa as models for their conflict with Zionism .
These analogies are important because in both Algeria and South Africa , colonialism failed .
Descendants of the European settlers in Algeria fled back to Europe .
In South Africa , Blacks achieved political dominance over the descendants of British and Afrikaner settlers , large numbers of whom remain as a tolerated minority .
A permanent end to the conflict over Palestine will not be possible until the Palestinian Arabs and their allies become convinced that the failure of colonialism in countries like Algeria and South Africa is not a relevant lesson for them .
In other words Arabs will have to become convinced that they can neither subjugate the Jews nor drive the Jews out of Palestine .
The negotiating formula of &quot; land for peace &quot; and &quot; breakthroughs &quot; like the Oslo accords failed to dampen the conflict because the Arabs understandably interpret Israeli concessions as signs of weakness .
Unfortunately , the Israelis can show the Arabs that they cannot destroy Israel only by enduring the violent war of attrition that the Arabs are pursuing .
Moreover , there seems no obvious way to speed up the process of convincing the Arabs that Israel is here to stay except by making this war of attrition as costly as possible for them .
But suppose a two @-@ state solution were achieved in the not @-@ too @-@ remote future .
In thinking about this possibility we are drawn to the example of Ireland , where a two @-@ state solution has worked .
Having secured an independent Irish state , Catholics in the Republic of Ireland came to accept the existence of a settler enclave in Northern Ireland .
But , the Irish story has not had a happy ending .
The Catholic minority in Northern Ireland , whose position seems similar to that of the million Arabs who are Israeli citizens , eventually revolted against the dominant Protestants , with decades of violence resulting .
Even if a Palestinian state committed to peaceful coexistence were created , down the road Israel may be unable to avoid the fate of Northern Ireland .
A UN Consensus
&quot; When you say everything is a priority , then you are saying you don &apos;t really have any priorities . &quot; Those were the words of US ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton as he attempted my challenge to establish concrete priorities for the world .
Political recognition of the importance of priorities is a crucial development .
Politicians avoid creating prioritized &quot; to do &quot; lists that could upset groups whose interests do not come first .
It is simpler to declare that every challenge is a &quot; top priority . &quot;
The UN spends billions of dollars promoting human rights , protecting the environment , fighting disease and reducing poverty .
The organization &apos;s budget is vast but - like all budgets - limited .
Yet , choices about battling humanity &apos;s biggest challenges are rarely founded in a principled framework of prioritization .
Decisions are mired in a constant battle for resources between competing interest groups , countries and organizations .
UN Deputy Secretary @-@ General Mark Malloch Brown has pointed out that there is distrust between representatives of populous developing nations and those from wealthier states - a stand @-@ off he calls &quot; numbers versus pocketbooks . &quot;
This backdrop makes this week &apos;s achievement all the more remarkable .
I gathered UN ambassadors from the US , China , India , Pakistan , Tanzania , Zambia , Russia , Egypt , Thailand and Vietnam in a project called Copenhagen Consensus .
I asked them to set priorities for the world .
The ambassadors - who together represent about half of the world &apos;s population - listened to climate change experts tell them that global warming is a vital issue and that the Kyoto Protocol could be used to tackle it .
They heard from health experts who said that communicable diseases were rampant and that mosquito nets would be a great way to combat malaria .
Other experts told them that two @-@ and @-@ a @-@ half billion people lack access to sanitation but investment in relatively simple projects could drastically reduce that number .
All important problems .
Each should be tackled .
But with limited resources , we need to commit to solving some problems before others .
It makes sense to first invest in the areas that achieve the greatest benefits .
The essential question put to the ambassadors was : if you had an extra $ 50 billion , how should it be spent to achieve the most &quot; good &quot; possible ? &quot;
The ambassadors considered the expert evidence and debated the pro and cons of each option before putting together a prioritized &quot; to do &quot; list of solutions to the world &apos;s greatest challenges ( See List ) .
They concluded that the world &apos;s top solutions are better health , cleaner water , more education and less hunger .
The burden of disease ruins lives and entire communities .
Nine out of ten deaths from communicable diseases in the developing world are avoidable .
The world could fight back with general health services in at @-@ need areas along with more focused efforts to combat HIV and malaria .
The ambassadors found that providing clean drinking water and sanitation to the billion people lacking such amenities was crucial .
They also concluded that without a constant focus on education , other gains could not be sustained .
They decided that dealing with malnutrition is also a crucial priority .
Eight hundred million people are chronically undernourished while three and a half billion lack micronutrients .
But choosing the issues at the top of a priority list is the easy part .
Asking politicians to choose what shouldn &apos;t come first was the real test .
The ambassadors showed courage .
They concluded that although migration , corruption and conflicts are vital , these should not come first on the global priority list .
The evidence led them to believe that proposed solutions to financial instability and global warming - while both important topics - are not the right investments to start with .
The UN ambassadors &quot; first attempt at a deliberate prioritization shows that this approach could be used on a much bigger scale .
It could help to put the organization back on track and assist it to focus on doing the best things first .
As John Bolton pointed out , the UN has 9,000 mandates , which means 9,000 top priorities , which essentially means
Thailand &apos;s ambassador pointed out that using the Copenhagen Consensus prioritization framework could help the UN to ensure better , more effective utilization of scarce resources in tackling top issues .
Zambia &apos;s ambassador believed that &quot; all member countries of the UN would benefit from going through a similar process , becoming more aware of the need to prioritize . &quot; Perhaps it is now time to convene all of the UN member countries and ask them the hard but vital question : given that we can &apos;t do it all , what should we do first ?
List of priorities , outcome document from Copenhagen Consensus by UN ambassadors , June 16 @-@ 17 2006 at Georgetown University :
challenge
opportunity
1
Communicable Diseases
Scaled @-@ up basic health services
2
Sanitation and Water
Community @-@ managed water supply and sanitation
3
Education
Physical expansion
4
Malnutrition and Hunger
Improving infant and child nutrition
5
Malnutrition and Hunger
Investment in technology in developing country agriculture
6
Communicable Diseases
Control of HIV / AIDS
7
Communicable Diseases
Control of malaria
8
Malnutrition and Hunger
Reducing micro nutrient deficiencies
9
Subsidies and Trade Barriers
Optimistic Doha : 50 % liberalization
10
Education
Improve quality / Systemic reforms
11
Sanitation and Water
Small @-@ scale water technology for livelihoods
12
Education
Expand demand for schooling
13
Malnutrition and Hunger
Reducing Low Birth Weight for high risk pregnancies
14
Education
Reductions in the cost of schooling to increase demand
15
Sanitation and Water
Research to increase water productivity in food production
16
Migration
Migration for development
17
Corruption
Procurement reform
18
Conflicts
Aid post @-@ conflict to reduce the risk of repeat conflict
19
Sanitation and Water
Re @-@ using waste water for agriculture
20
Migration
Guest worker policies
21
Sanitation and Water
Sustainable food and fish production in wetlands
22
Corruption
Grassroots monitoring and service delivery
23
Corruption
Technical assistance to develop monitoring and transparency initiatives
24
Migration
Active immigration policies
25
Subsidies and Trade Barriers
Pessimistic Doha : 25 % liberalization
26
Corruption
Reduction in the state @-@ imposed costs of business / government relations
27
Climate Change
The Kyoto Protocol
28
Conflicts
Aid as conflict prevention
29
Corruption
Reform of revenue collection
30
Financial Instability
International solution to the currency @-@ mismatch problem
31
Conflicts
Transparency in natural resource rents as conflict prevention
32
Conflicts
Military spending post @-@ conflict to reduce the risk of repeat conflict
33
Financial Instability
Re @-@ regulate domestic financial markets
34
Conflicts
Shortening conflicts : Natural resource tracking
35
Financial Instability
Reimpose capital controls
36
Financial Instability
Adopt a common currency
37
Subsidies and Trade Barriers
Full reform : 100 % liberalization
38
Climate Change
Optimal carbon tax
39
Climate Change
Value @-@ at @-@ risk carbon tax
40
Climate Change
A carbon tax starting at $ 2 and ending at $ 20
A Universal Library
MELBOURNE - Scholars have long dreamed of a universal library containing everything that has ever been written .
Then , in 2004 , Google announced that it would begin digitally scanning all the books held by five major research libraries . Suddenly , the library of utopia seemed within reach .
Indeed , a digital universal library would be even better than any earlier thinker could have imagined , because every work would be available to everyone , everywhere , at all times .
And the library could include not only books and articles , but also paintings , music , films , and every other form of creative expression that can be captured in digital form .
But Google &apos;s plan had a catch .
Most of the works held by those research libraries are still in copyright .
Google said that it would scan the entire book , irrespective of its copyright status , but that users searching for something in copyrighted books would be shown only a snippet .
This , it argued , was &quot; fair use &quot; - and thus permitted under copyright laws in the same way that one may quote a sentence or two from a book for the purpose of a review or discussion .
Publishers and authors disagreed , and some sued Google for breach of copyright , eventually agreeing to settle their claim in exchange for a share of Google &apos;s revenue .
Last month , in a Manhattan court , Judge Denny Chin rejected that proposed settlement , in part because it would have given Google a de facto monopoly over the digital versions of so @-@ called &quot; orphan &quot; books - that is , books that are still in copyright , but no longer in print , and whose copyright ownership is difficult to determine .
Chin held that the United States Congress , not a court , was the appropriate body to decide who should be entrusted with guardianship over orphan books , and on what terms .
He was surely right , at least in so far as we are considering matters within US jurisdiction .
These are large and important issues that affect not only authors , publishers , and Google , but anyone with an interest in the diffusion and availability of knowledge and culture .
So , while Chin &apos;s decision is a temporary setback on the way to a universal library , it provides an opportunity to reconsider how the dream can best be realized .
The central issue is this : how can we make books and articles - not just snippets , but entire works - available to everyone , while preserving the rights of the works &quot; creators ?
To answer that , of course , we need to decide what those rights are .
Just as inventors are given patents so that they can profit from their inventions for a limited time , so , too , authors were originally given copyright for a relatively short period - in the US , it was initially only 14 years from the first publication of the work .
For most authors , that would be enough time to earn the bulk of the income that they would ever receive from their writings ; after that , the works would be in the public domain .
But corporations build fortunes on copyright , and repeatedly pushed Congress to extend it , to the point that in the US it now lasts for 70 years after the creator &apos;s death .
( The 1998 legislation responsible for the last extension was nicknamed the &quot; Mickey Mouse Protection Act &quot; because it allowed the Walt Disney Company to retain copyright of its famous cartoon character . )
It is because copyright lasts so long that as many as three @-@ quarters of all library books are &quot; orphaned . &quot;
This vast collection of knowledge , culture , and literary achievement is inaccessible to most people .
Digitizing it would make it available to anyone with Internet access .
As Peter Brantley , Director of Technology for the California Digital Library , has put it : &quot; We have a moral imperative to reach out to our library shelves , grab the material that is orphaned , and set it on top of scanners . &quot;
Robert Darnton , Director of the Harvard University Library , has proposed an alternative to Google &apos;s plans : a digital public library , funded by a coalition of foundations , working in tandem with a coalition of research libraries .
Darnton &apos;s plan falls short of a universal library , because works in print and in copyright would be excluded ; but he believes that Congress might grant a non @-@ commercial public library the right to digitize orphan books .
That would be a huge step in the right direction , but we should not give up the dream of a universal digital public library .
After all , books still in print are likely to be the ones that contain the most up @-@ to @-@ date information , and the ones that people most want to read .
Many European countries , as well as Australia , Canada , Israel , and New Zealand , have adopted legislation that creates a &quot; public lending right &quot; - that is , the government recognizes that enabling hundreds of people to read a single copy of a book provides a public good , but that doing so is likely to reduce sales of the book .
The universal public library could be allowed to digitize even works that are in print and in copyright , in exchange for fees paid to the publisher and author based on the number of times the digital version is read .
If we can put a man on the Moon and sequence the human genome , we should be able to devise something close to a universal digital public library .
At that point , we will face another moral imperative , one that will be even more difficult to fulfill : expanding Internet access beyond the less than 30 % of the world &apos;s population that currently has it .
A Universal Revolution
NEW YORK - The most important contribution of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , adopted by the United Nations General Assembly 60 years ago , on December 10 , 1948 , was to assert a powerful idea : rights are universal .
Rights do not depend on membership of a particular community or citizenship in a certain state .
They do not derive from a social contract .
Rather , because rights are universal , they are attributes of all human beings .
Indeed , they are part of what makes us human .
Each of us may enjoy rights .
Those who exercise power may do so only in limited ways . The limits are set by rights .
It is , of course , possible to trace the concept of universal rights at least as far back as seventeenth @-@ century English thinking about natural law .
The concept was partially embraced in the French Declaration of Rights of 1789 and , to a greater extent , in Thomas Jefferson &apos;s language in the same era about &quot; inalienable rights . &quot; It also shaped the thinking of those in England who led the anti @-@ slavery struggle of the second half of the eighteenth century , the first human rights movement .
Yet the Universal Declaration marked a giant step forward , as the world &apos;s governments - with abstentions from the Soviet bloc states , Saudi Arabia , and apartheid South Africa , but with no votes in opposition - agreed that rights should take precedence over state power .
One way to think about the six decades that have elapsed since the adoption of the Universal Declaration is as a struggle to implement its promises .
For a long time , it was a losing struggle , marked especially by the spread of both communist and anti @-@ communist tyrannies .
Things began to change in the 1980 &quot; s with the fall of military dictatorships in Latin America and in such East Asian countries as the Philippines and South Korea , and with the growing number of people engaged in the struggle for human rights in the Soviet empire .
By the end of the decade , many Soviet bloc regimes had collapsed .
A factor that contributed to their demise was a shift in thinking that transformed the conflict between East and West away from one that emphasized economic systems . Instead , it was the contrast between totalitarianism and respect for rights that completely discredited the oppressive regimes linked to Moscow and helped to bring them down .
South Africa &apos;s largely peaceful transition to a multi @-@ racial democracy in the early 1990 &quot; s was a further advance for rights .
But the last decade of the twentieth century was also indelibly stained by ethnic cleansing in ex @-@ Yugoslavia and genocide in Rwanda , and during the current decade the tide has seemed to turn against the rights cause .
Powerful states such as China and Russia are not limiting themselves to authoritarian rule at home , but are also supporting those in other countries engaged in similar practices .
The same is true of lesser powers such as Iran and Venezuela .
Moreover , the United States has been squandering much of its capacity to promote human rights internationally . In responding to the terrorist attacks on its own soil on September 11 , 2001 , the US has resorted to such measures as prolonged indefinite detention without charges , trials before military commissions lacking due process safeguards , and cruel , inhuman , and degrading treatment of detainees , including torture .
Other governments and intergovernmental bodies have not filled the gap left by the US .
The new UN Human Rights Council has so far disappointed those who hoped that it would be a more principled and effective body than its discredited predecessor , the UN Human Rights Commission .
The European Union has been a positive force in promoting rights in those countries aspiring to membership , but it has not demonstrated a capacity to exercise influence worldwide .
Today , the most effective force promoting human rights is global public opinion , informed and mobilized by the large and growing nongovernmental human rights movement , which , as in the recent war between Georgia and Russia , has focused international attention on violations of the laws of armed conflict that protect noncombatants .
It has also led the way in creating international criminal tribunals that prosecute and punish those who commit war crimes , crimes against humanity , and genocide .
These achievements are not stopping war , but they are reducing the number of terrible human rights violations that accompany armed conflict .
It is , of course , dismaying that 60 years after the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , so many governments disregard the principles that they endorsed so long ago .
Yet without the legitimacy derived from the Universal Declaration and its role in promoting compliance , the nongovernmental human rights movement could not have developed into a global force .
The fact that the movement continues to secure advances even in difficult times is an indication of the enduring significance of what was achieved in 1948 when the world &apos;s governments declared that rights are universal .
Should Europe be Fracking ?
BRUSSELS - The global energy community is abuzz with excitement about hydraulic fracturing , or &quot; fracking , &quot; a newish technology that has opened formerly inaccessible reserves of gas trapped in underground shale formations .
The boom in this so @-@ called shale @-@ gas production has allowed the United States to become almost self @-@ sufficient in natural gas .
Europe , by contrast , is clearly lagging .
Exploration is proceeding only hesitantly and shale @-@ gas production has not even started , prompting many observers to lament that Europe is about to miss the next energy revolution .
Should Europeans be worried ?
Critics of Europe &apos;s apparent lack of enthusiasm for fracking miss two key points .
First , Europe &apos;s geology is different from that of America .
There is a huge difference between potential deposits hidden somewhere in large shale formations and recoverable reserves that can actually be produced economically .
In fact , estimates by the International Energy Agency suggest that the most significant recoverable reserves of shale gas are in the US and China , not Europe .
Moreover , even these estimates are really not much more than educated guesses , because only in the US have shale formations been subject to intense exploration over a period of decades .
This process is starting in Europe only now .
Poland appears to have Europe &apos;s most favorable geology , and it might become a significant producer on a local scale in about ten years .
This is a fortunate coincidence , because shale @-@ gas production would probably make it politically easier to phase out Poland &apos;s economically and environmentally irrational subsidies to local coal production ( and consumption ) .
Fracking would also be a strategic boon , because it would diminish the country &apos;s dependence on Russia for gas .
But pro @-@ fracking critics of the European Union miss a second point : the EU has no authority over the development of shale gas in Europe .
Licensing and regulation of exploration and production are decided at the national level .
One must admit , however , that in Europe the &quot; Nimby &quot; phenomenon ( not in my backyard ) is a much more serious obstacle than it is in the US .
While it might be true that Europeans are too sensitive to environmental concerns , incentives also play a role .
In particular , whereas ownership rights over natural resources in the US typically belong to the individual owner of the land under which the resources lie , in Europe ownership belongs to the state .
As a result , Europeans , facing uncertain environmental consequences while receiving none of the revenues , tend to oppose fracking nearby .
In the US , by contrast , local residents benefit handsomely from being able to sell their ownership rights to gas companies - a strong counter @-@ balance to fears of environmental costs .
But private versus state ownership of natural resources is not the only institutional factor underlying the US gas boom .
A seldom @-@ mentioned reason is that shale @-@ gas development in the US has benefited from important tax incentives - a model that Europe has no reason to emulate .
Governments certainly have a role to play in supporting the development of new technologies , such as fracking ; but , once the technology has been developed , there is no reason why one form of gas production should be subsidized via tax breaks .
But the most crucial - and almost always overlooked - point about fracking is that shale gas , like all hydrocarbons , can be used only once .
The real issue is thus not whether shale gas should be developed in Europe , but when it should be used : today or tomorrow .
Europe is already a heavy user of gas , but its consumption is stagnating ( along with its economy ) .
Despite the hype about the shale @-@ gas revolution , the extraction cost of ( onshore ) conventional gas remains below that of shale gas .
Moreover , an existing pipeline network implies that this conventional gas can be brought to Europe at a low marginal cost .
From an economic ( and environmental ) standpoint , fracking is thus unlikely to bring large benefits for Europe : shale gas might simply substitute for plentiful conventional gas .
In an environment of ultra @-@ low interest rates , the economic cost of being late is low .
The best option for Europe might be to wait and let the market operate .
Fracking is not yet a mature technology , and thus it is very likely to improve over time .
Maybe Europe will become a leader in &quot; advanced fracking &quot; when the shale @-@ gas deposits in the US have already been exhausted .
A Velvet Climate Revolution ?
BUDAPEST - In the discussions now underway in Copenhagen , the fate of Earth &apos;s climate is at stake .
Although many of the participants recognize the urgency , the actions of many of them suggest that a business @-@ as @-@ usual approach will suffice .
But it will not .
The world needs a decisive break with the past , and that break needs to start now .
Fortunately , we have recent precedents for changes that fundamentally alter the economic and political landscape - i.e. , of revolutionary change undertaken peacefully and with enthusiastic popular support .
The collapse of communism in Central and Eastern Europe 20 years ago , and the establishment of new democratic polities with market economies , was precisely such a decisive and positive rupture with the past .
Those regime changes required people to change not only their way of life , but also their habits of mind .
The ecological revolution that the world demands today - a transition to a low @-@ carbon global economy and a low @-@ carbon way of daily life - will require a similarly comprehensive change .
Obviously , such a comparison has its limits .
The regime change that took place in the communist world introduced a well @-@ known model ( or so we thought ) , whereas there is no existing model at hand for a low @-@ carbon and yet efficient economy .
In Central and Eastern Europe 20 years ago , comprehensive change demanded that all political and economic institutions be discarded , altered , or built anew ; a complete change in society &apos;s &quot; hardware &quot; was required .
But the ecological revolution has less need for new institutions .
Rather , what is needed most is a new way of thinking - new &quot; software &quot; ( though effective &quot; hard &quot; green technologies also are essential ) .
As we saw in the postcommunist world , changing attitudes is often the hardest problem of all .
People quickly embraced formal democracy , but the tolerance and compromise that is at the heart of the democratic process took time to take root .
And it is this very change in mindset that we most need today .
Yet , apart from the clear differences between the revolution of 1989 and the green revolution that is to come , there are striking similarities .
First , a thoroughgoing alteration of highly complex systems will be needed to preserve the world &apos;s climate , just as such root @-@ and @-@ branch changes were needed 20 years ago in the postcommunist countries .
Second , the crisis of today must be managed in a peaceful manner , which was also our goal in 1989 - reflected in dissidents &quot; startling idea of regime change through negotiation . Finally , today , too , comprehensive transformation is supposed to occur in a very short time , which 1989 taught us is eminently possible .
The method of change that we followed then - and which I recommend now - precludes violence and minimizes costs .
The tool for achieving it was - and remains - agreement in advance on the fundamental goals of change and on a roadmap to guide the interested parties .
The essence is that the decision to carry out fundamental change must be made ( and clearly communicated to everyone involved ! ) at the outset .
The idea of &quot; reforming &quot; or adapting the old system without decisive change must be rejected before the process begins .
Hungary and Poland reached agreement on the rules for peaceful transformation through a series of negotiations between the ruling communist parties and the opposition organizations .
This bears a similarity to climate conferences where countries - developed , emerging , or poor - sit down at the same table and try to reach agreement on a common goal : a fair model for reducing CO2 emissions .
The people of Central and Eastern Europe simply wanted democracy and prosperity - but the elite had to be able to convince them to accept many unforeseen concurrent events , which was by no means easy .
Similar acts of compromise on sustainability , measures to limit consumption , and to ensure equality will require the involvement of all stakeholders in order to gain their acceptance .
This underlines the huge responsibility of those charged with guiding and managing these changes .
Even though the transformation cannot be fully planned in advance , insisting on certain key points at the start is a basic requirement .
One such requirement during the changes in 1989 concerned the creation of minimum institutions to guarantee the rule of law : free elections , civil liberty , and an independent judiciary .
The factors forcing ecological regime change - climate , biodiversity , injustice - cannot be managed in isolation from one another .
Nevertheless , a key component must have priority : reducing the effects of and adjusting to climate change .
Can We Feed the World ?
LONDON - In the 1960 &quot; s , the Green Revolution - which included the development of high @-@ yielding crop varieties , the expansion of irrigation infrastructure , and the distribution of modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing @-@ country farmers - bolstered agricultural production worldwide .
But chronic hunger remains pervasive , particularly in developing countries , which are affected most by crop shortages and food @-@ price volatility .
By 2050 , the global human population is expected to exceed nine billion .
Achieving food security means ensuring that all people have consistent , affordable access to the right nutrients , despite land and water limitations , climate change , and the growing prevalence of resource @-@ intensive Western @-@ style diets that accompany rising incomes .
Surmounting these challenges will not be easy .
But , by taking concerted action to encourage innovation , strengthen market linkages , and support smallholder farmers and women , developing countries can build productive , stable , resilient , and equitable agricultural sectors , achieve sustainable economic growth , and guarantee food security for all .
First , the public and private sectors must ramp up investment in research and development , as well as in the extension and adoption of effective , accessible , and affordable technologies - whether conventional , intermediate , or new platform - according to each country or region &apos;s individual needs .
Given that little suitable land remains unused , and that much of what is being farmed is increasingly degraded and eroded , investment in sustainable intensification ( systems for increasing crop yields , while using fewer resources and minimizing environmental damage ) is crucial .
For example , conservation agriculture , which aims to reduce or eliminate the need for damaging and labor @-@ intensive interventions like mechanical soil tillage , can increase yields while protecting vulnerable areas from erosion and improving soil fertility .
In Zambia , research conducted by local governments , in collaboration with the anti @-@ poverty charity Concern Worldwide , found that new hybrid seeds produced roughly four to five tons of maize per hectare , compared to Africa &apos;s average of one ton per hectare .
Moreover , smallholder farmers - who are essential to productive , stable , resilient , and equitable agricultural development - should be given the needed tools and support to capture more benefits from value chains , while minimizing risk .
This requires building and maintaining fair and efficient input and output markets that connect them - as well as larger @-@ scale farmers - physically and virtually to opportunities to increase their incomes .
The Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa has worked with governments , international organizations , charitable foundations , private industry , and farmers &quot; groups to train and support more than 5,000 agrodealers in eastern and western Africa as they open stores to sell key inputs in small , affordable quantities .
As a result , farmers can travel shorter distances to acquire needed supplies .
In one area of Kenya , farmers who had to travel 17 kilometers to reach an agrodealer in 2004 had to travel only four kilometers three years later .
At the same time , smallholder farmers need easier access to markets to sell their crops for a fair price , rather than relying on expensive middlemen or inefficient government bodies .
An alternative would be to establish some form of cooperative or contract @-@ based farm association that can negotiate fair prices .
Governments must also develop and implement policies aimed at ensuring that those who are typically marginalized from the formal food industry - women , young people , ethnic minorities , and non @-@ landowners - have reliable access to adequate nutrition and opportunities to participate in agricultural production .
As farmers , mothers , educators , and innovators , women provide a critical link between food production , consumption , and future progress on food security .
Indeed , giving female farmers access to the same resources as their male counterparts could reduce the number of undernourished people worldwide by 100 @-@ 150 million .
Finally , political leaders must consistently pursue this agenda at the international , regional , national , and local levels .
To that end , they must honor their commitments - made through international institutions , such as the G @-@ 8 , the G @-@ 20 , and the African Union - to increasing investment in agricultural development and to combating global hunger .
Likewise , they must offer sustained support to ongoing national initiatives , thus encouraging further investment and cooperation .
John Kufuor , Ghana &apos;s president from 2001 to 2009 , exemplified such leadership , boosting investment in agricultural research , farmer education , and infrastructure projects , such as roads , warehouses , and cold storage .
As a result , the proportion of people living in poverty fell from 51 % in 1991 @-@ 92 to 28.5 % in 2005 @-@ 06 .
Over the last 25 years , Ghana &apos;s agricultural sector has grown at an average annual rate of 5 % .
Such experiences provide grounds for optimism .
By investing in and spreading innovative technologies , strengthening market linkages , encouraging visionary leadership , and targeting those most in need - and thus with the most potential - we can feed the world .
Less of an Ass
PARIS - &quot; If the law supposes that , &quot; says Mr. Bumble in Oliver Twist , &quot; the law is a ass - a idiot . &quot; For decades , Britain &apos;s libel laws had been living down to Mr. Bumble &apos;s expectations .
But freedom of expression worldwide received a boost - and Britain &apos;s reputation for commonsense was somewhat restored - in April , when Parliament adopted legislation revising the country &apos;s libel law .
Previously , corporations and individuals all over the world who claimed that they had been defamed - even if those suing or those who allegedly defamed them had little or no connection to the United Kingdom - would bring lawsuits for libel in the British courts .
The practice was widely known as &quot; libel tourism . &quot;
Many plaintiffs who brought such lawsuits - Russian and Ukrainian oligarchs , Arab princes , African dictators , and unscrupulous bosses - had little chance to prevail .
But the point was not to win .
Often , their targets had much fewer resources , which meant that a libel suit requiring both sides to spend substantial amounts could be effective in silencing critics even if it did not succeed .
Within the United Kingdom itself , the law meant that many important issues could not be fully debated .
The passage of libel reform is attributable to a campaign launched more than three years ago by three organizations : English PEN , a writers association ; Index on Censorship , a bimonthly journal that has monitored censorship worldwide and published the works of censored writers for the past four decades ; and Sense About Science , an organization that promotes scientific knowledge and understanding .
The targeting of scientific journals and scientists for exposing charlatans was a leading factor in generating public support for reform of the UK &apos;s libel law .
The cases involving science included a costly lawsuit against Nature , one of the world &apos;s best @-@ known and most widely respected scientific journals .
Nature had to contend with a libel suit for pointing out that a physics journal had published many articles by its editor , and that these articles had not been subjected to peer review .
Though Nature defended itself successfully , the suit cost it a lot of money and tied up many of its staff members for long periods .
Other libel suits involved unproven cancer therapies .
The science case that probably played the most significant role in the campaign was a suit filed by the British Chiropractic Association against science writer Simon Singh for an article he published in The Guardian in 2008 , in which he discussed &quot; bogus treatments . &quot;
Singh won his case , but it cost him dearly in time and legal expenses .
One of the cases that illustrated the kind of &quot; tourism &quot; encouraged by the law involved a suit by a Saudi businessman against an American author who said in her book that the businessman had provided financial support to Al Qaeda .
Apparently , 23 copies of the book were sold in the United Kingdom .
That provided a sufficient nexus for the British courts to accept jurisdiction .
Though the American author did not hire British counsel and did not try to defend herself in the UK , she was ordered to pay damages , arousing outrage in the United States .
The US Congress adopted legislation , signed by President Barack Obama , making such judgments unenforceable in American courts .
The revised British law continues to place the burden of proof on the defense .
But the standard that must be met has been changed .
The new law permits an author or publisher who is sued to invoke a &quot; public interest &quot; defense .
Moreover , corporations , charities , and other institutions filing libel suits will now have to show that they suffered financial damage .
Singh argues that this requirement by itself would have prevented the suit against him by the British Chiropractic Association from going forward .
And libel tourism will be drastically reduced by a new rule that excludes suits from outside the European Union if it cannot be shown that the UK is the most appropriate place to bring the case .
British law firms that have apparently made a lot of money representing libel plaintiffs from around the world impeded adoption of the new law through intense lobbying .
The scientists , writers , and anti @-@ censorship activists who led the campaign were assisted in Parliament by Lord Lester , a well @-@ known British civil liberties lawyer , who introduced a Private Members &quot; Bill in 2010 , and eventually by endorsement of reform by all three major political parties .
Nearly 400 years ago , in 1644 , John Milton published his Areopagitica , an essay denouncing a measure in Parliament for licensing the press that was intended , among other things , to suppress libelous publications .
That essay is widely regarded as the start of the worldwide movement for freedom of speech and the press .
Last month &apos;s victory by scientists , writers , and anti @-@ censorship campaigners suggests that the movement launched by Milton still has life in his own country .
A Vital and Enduring Alliance
In recent years , many experts and commentators have said that the Atlantic Alliance would crumble or become irrelevant .
As a former ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) , I can say from experience that such dire predictions are nothing new .
As America &apos;s current Secretary of Defense , it is clear to me that the transatlantic partnership is as relevant and essential as ever .
Consider the historic events that have taken place in the past year and the role played by the United States and Europe .
NATO added seven new members - nations eager to contribute to the Alliance in powerful ways .
In Afghanistan , eight million voters , 40 % of them women , chose their first democratically elected President in 5,000 years .
In the Palestinian Authority , a democratically elected president offers the hope of a new chance for peace .
In Ukraine , ordinary citizens demonstrated the depth of their commitment to free and fair elections .
In Iraq , Saddam Hussein &apos;s former subjects braved threats and voted for the first time with ballots that offered a choice of 70 political parties , rather than only one .
Across the country , voters arrived on crutches and in donkey carts , passing by posters that threatened : &quot; You vote , you die . &quot;
What a damaging blow to the extremists , whose ideology the voters so clearly rejected .
While there have been differences over Iraq , such issues among longtime friends are not new .
Consider just a few of the divisions that have come up among NATO allies over the past decades .
In the 1960 &quot; s , France decided to pull out of the NATO integrated command and asked NATO forces to leave its territory .
In the 1980 &quot; s there was profound disagreement and controversy over President Ronald Reagan &apos;s decision to deploy medium @-@ range missiles in Europe .
In fact , as NATO Ambassador in the 1970 &quot; s , I had to fly back to testify against legislation in the US Congress to withdraw America &apos;s forces from Europe in the middle of the Cold War .
Our Atlantic Alliance has navigated through some choppy seas over the years , but we have always been able to resolve the toughest issues .
That is because there is so much that unites us : common values , shared histories , and an abiding faith in democracy .
Today , we also share a common enemy .
Extremists have targeted all civilized societies across the globe : in New York and Washington ; Istanbul ; Madrid ; Beslan ; Bali ; and more .
They do not seek an armistice with the civilized world .
They will not negotiate a separate peace .
They would like nothing better than for America and Europe to be at odds , rather than working together .
The arrests of numerous terrorist suspects last month by French and German authorities made clear that no one nation can do the critical work necessary to win the struggle against extremists .
Often quietly , America and European nations are sharing intelligence , capturing terrorists , and disrupting their finances .
As a result , some three @-@ quarters of known al @-@ Qaeda leaders have been killed or captured , and others are on the run .
Nor can any one nation stop the proliferation of dangerous weapons .
This is why some 60 nations have joined the Proliferation Security Initiative in an effort to keep deadly weapons from dangerous regimes .
In 2003 , German , Italian , British , and American authorities confiscated nuclear equipment bound for Tripoli , leading to Libya &apos;s decision to open its weapons inventories to inspectors .
Every NATO nation has personnel serving in the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan , which just changed command from a French to a Turkish general .
One of NATO &apos;s newest members , Lithuania , is taking leadership of a Provincial Reconstruction Team - joining other European nations in contributing to Afghanistan &apos;s stability and progress .
Indeed , more than half of all NATO nations have had forces in both Afghanistan and Iraq .
As the Iraqi people take more steps along the challenging road to democracy , more NATO countries have agreed to help train Iraqi security personnel by providing funds or equipment and by establishing a war college and military academies .
Members of NATO share much more than an alliance ; we are united by ties of blood and purpose , a heritage of liberty , and a calling to confront extremists &quot; violence - and defeat it .
In the 60 years since World War II came to an end , we have counted on each other in times of peril and challenge .
I am old enough to remember both the rise and fall of the Berlin Wall , and the ascent and collapse of Nazism , of Fascism , and of Soviet Communism .
Together the members of NATO have helped to protect Kosovo and recently brought aid to the victims of a devastating tsunami .
Great achievements are possible when the Atlantic community is united .
That unity need not mean a uniformity of tactics or views , but rather a union of purpose .
Those who cherish free political systems and free economic systems share similar hopes .
Working together , those hopes can become realities for many more people .
A Vote against Voting in Pakistan
ISLAMABAD &amp; # 45 ; &amp; # 45 ; As Pakistan gears up for its parliamentary election on February 18 , many observers hope that the vote will usher in a period of stability and calm by lending popular legitimacy to the government .
But sometimes democracy is best served by refusing to participate .
The upcoming election , to be held under the illegal Provisional Constitutional Order ( PCO ) implemented following President Pervez Musharraf &apos;s state of emergency on November 3 , is such a case , which is why my party and its coalition partners are boycotting the vote .
To be sure , contesting the election would provide my party with a great opportunity to take issues to the people .
In fact , my party &apos;s support has been growing , with opinion polls now indicating that it is the second most popular in the frontier province - and gaining ground in every other province .
But elections by themselves don &apos;t bring democracy .
Zimbabwe &apos;s president , Robert Mugabe , loves elections .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak has been holding elections for 27 years .
Uzbekistan &apos;s Islam Karimov has been in power for 30 years , and has just been &quot; elected &quot; to a fresh seven @-@ year presidential term .
Elections are meaningful only if they are perceived to be free and fair , which requires independent referees .
When my party started eleven years ago , we called ourselves the Movement For Justice .
We demanded an independent judiciary , because we believed that democracy and prosperity are impossible without the rule of law , and that the rule of law requires a judiciary that can act as a constraint on the government .
Having gone to university in western countries , we were inspired by the American system of check and balances .
So it is a shock to us that the US State Department keeps talking about free and fair elections and abolishing the state of emergency , but without mentioning the reinstatement of the judges - including the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court - that Musharraf illegally dismissed .
If the judges are not reinstated , how can there be free and fair elections ?
Who decides what is free and fair ?
Musharraf ?
This is where the battle lines are now drawn , and where the future of the country will be decided .
If the Chief Justice and the judges are reinstated , we can move toward a genuine democratic system .
But if Musharraf manages to get his own PCO judges established in the country , then we will head toward a period of turmoil .
After all , how can the party of a man who has less than 5 % support win the election now without rigging it ?
Unfortunately , most of the political parties have failed to stand up for the democratic process .
Major parties like the Pakistan Muslim League ( Nawaz ) have decided to participate , following the lead of the late Benazir Bhutto &apos;s People &apos;s Party .
And , of all the major parties that are contesting the election , only the PMLN is demanding the reinstatement of the judges .
Fortunately , the people of Pakistan - students , opinion makers , and , above all , lawyers - are standing up for the judges , doing the work that should have been done by political parties .
We see lawyers marching , getting beaten up , filling the jails , and yet remaining resolute .
They are suffering huge financial losses by boycotting the courts , and yet they are determined that the Chief Justice must be reinstated .
So the dividing line in Pakistan is not between liberals and extremists , but between those who support the status quo and those who oppose it .
Parties that call themselves democratic are not only going along with Musharraf in this fraudulent election , but are also helping to restore the status quo .
The solution to dysfunctional democracy is not military dictatorship , but more democracy .
Pakistanis understand democracy , because we have a democratic culture .
Our founder was a great constitutionalist , and Pakistan came into being through the vote .
The problem has been that because we have lacked an independent judiciary , we have not had an independent election commission .
So all our elections , except for one in 1970 , have been rigged .
India , with which Pakistan shares a similar background , went through 40 years of dysfunctional democracy with a one @-@ party system .
But in the last 16 years it has begun to reap the fruits of genuine democratic competition , because an independent judiciary and electoral commission gives people confidence that their vote can make a difference .
Until we have the same in Pakistan , no election can be free and fair .
For two and a half years , I supported Musharraf and believed his promises to bring genuine democracy to Pakistan .
I &apos;ve learned my lesson about Musharraf .
But , more importantly , no military dictator can succeed where Musharraf has so clearly failed .
Winston Churchill once said , &quot; War is too serious a business for generals . &quot;
The same is true of democracy .
A Wake @-@ Up Call for the ECB
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke has allowed global stock markets to railroad him into a whopping 75 @-@ basis @-@ point cut in interest rates just one week before the regularly scheduled meeting of the Fed &apos;s decision @-@ making Open Market Committee .
European Central Bank President Jean @-@ Claude Trichet would never allow this to happen to the ECB - he manipulates markets ; markets don &apos;t manipulate him .
Indeed , with America &apos;s economy in apparent freefall , Trichet is threatening euro @-@ zone trade unions with pre @-@ emptive interest @-@ rate hikes unless they behave as he sees fit .
These threats may be proving counter @-@ productive to the achievement of price stability in the euro @-@ zone economy , the central bank &apos;s primary objective .
For example , to make his threats of an interest @-@ rate hike in the midst of a global slowdown credible , the ECB president is using his press conferences to tell the world how strong European growth is .
Besides being at odds with reality , the claim of strong growth actually encourages the trade unions to ask for even higher wages .
And why shouldn &apos;t they if things are as good as Trichet claims ?
Trichet also makes his job more difficult for himself by talking up Europe &apos;s inflationary threat .
His colleague on the ECB Governing Council , Bundesbank president Axel Weber , seems to have gotten the message that the more ECB officials talk up inflationary fears , the more the trade unions will ask .
So he recently toned down his rhetoric by warning that euro @-@ zone inflationary pressures should not be &quot; over @-@ dramatized . &quot;
How true !
The essential economic reality confronting the ECB today is that the American economy is falling headlong into a serious slump - Bernanke &apos;s surprise cut speaks volumes to this .
It defies economic logic to think that the global economy - including Europe - will escape its consequences .
As European growth slows , so will inflationary pressures .
So Trichet should relax , stop threatening others , and let the economic slowdown do the work for him .
Even with sticky wages and prices in Europe , the global slowdown will reduce energy , commodity , and food prices on world markets , all of which are important factors behind currently elevated European inflation levels .
The crude oil price already has dropped substantially from its highs at the beginning of the year .
But the evolving slowdown is not the only reason the threat of a wage @-@ price spiral in Europe is overblown .
Germany is facing a key wage negotiation with public @-@ sector unions .
Even if the unions win large wage increases - which is very likely and entirely justifiable given their past restraint - this will have only a negligible effect on Europe &apos;s price stability .
Increased public @-@ sector wage costs mean increased government spending on wages .
If this is financed by cutbacks elsewhere in the budget , the main consequence will be only a re @-@ distribution of government spending , which is not necessarily inflationary .
Nor is it inflationary if the wage increases are financed by higher taxes .
Only if the budget surplus diminishes would there be an inflationary impact , and that would not be due to a wage @-@ price spiral , but to an increase in net government demand , which actually might not be a bad thing for an economy facing a potentially severe economic slowdown .
In the United States , it should be remembered , the need for a fiscal stimulus developed , so it seems , out of the blue .
The same may happen in Europe , especially given the ECB &apos;s refusal to cut interest rates .
A decent settlement with public @-@ sector workers could give Germany a &quot; backdoor &quot; fiscal stimulus just at the right moment - when aggregate demand is flagging .
The real problem with a generous wage settlement with public @-@ sector unions is that private @-@ sector unions could use it to get more than their productivity gains warrant .
Contracts with the metal and chemical workers also are coming up for negotiation this year in Germany , and union leaders are talking tough .
Berthold Huber , the head of Germany &apos;s huge IG Metall engineering union , recently promised his rank and file &quot; a mega year &quot; for pay increases .
But the global slowdown , which takes the fangs out of the strike threat , will keep private @-@ sector workers in line no matter how much their leaders may rant and rave . Everyone , including bellicose trade unionists , tends to become more reasonable when the economy turns south .
Rather than encourage the unions with exaggerated talk of strong European growth and inflationary excess - and disrespect them with threats and interventions - Trichet should speak softly and let nature take its course .
A War on Tolerance
AMSTERDAM &amp; # 45 ; &amp; # 45 ; When &quot; tolerance &quot; becomes a term of abuse in a place like the Netherlands , you know that something has gone seriously wrong .
The Dutch always took pride in being the most tolerant people on earth .
In less feverish times than these , no one could possibly have taken exception to Queen Beatrix &apos;s speech last Christmas , when she pleaded for tolerance and &quot; respect for minorities . &quot;
But Geert Wilders , leader of the right @-@ wing , anti @-@ Muslim Freedom Party , was so disgusted by the Dutch queen &apos;s &quot; multi @-@ cultural rubbish &quot; that he wanted her to be stripped of her constitutional role in the government .
Wilders , a popular rabble @-@ rouser whose party occupies nine seats in the Dutch parliament , compares the Koran to Hitler &apos;s Mein Kampf , wants to stop Muslims from moving to the Netherlands , and thunders that those who are already in the country should tear up half the Koran if they wish to stay .
Tolerance towards Islam is cowardly appeasement in his eyes .
He thinks that Europe is in peril of being &quot; Islamized . &quot; &quot; There will soon be more mosques than churches , &quot; he says , if true Europeans don &apos;t have the guts to stand up and save Western civilization .
Notwithstanding his call to ban the Koran , Wilders and his admirers claim to believe in unfettered free speech as a Western birthright .
Beatrix stated that the right to free speech does not automatically mean the right to offend .
Wilders disagrees .
No criticism of Islam , however offensive , should ever be hampered by political correctness .
Wilders uses every opportunity to test Muslims &quot; ( often very limited ) tolerance .
His latest provocation is a short film denouncing Islam , which is yet to be shown , but has already caused panic all around .
Remarkably for a Dutch politician - and a minor one , at that - news of Wilders &apos;s antics has reached the world press .
So Dutch embassies are bracing themselves for violent demonstrations , and the government is considering special security measures .
Some commentators suggest that Wilders , born and raised as a Catholic in a provincial Dutch town , is , like his Muslim enemies , a true believer , driven by the goal of keeping Europe &quot; Judeo @-@ Christian . &quot;
Perhaps , but this is probably a red herring .
His war on Islam is also , and perhaps even mainly , a war on the cultural and political elites , the Dutch intellectual establishment , the Eurocrats of Brussels , and the liberal @-@ minded queen .
Indeed , his speeches are studded with references to arrogant elites who are out of touch with the feelings of the common man . &quot; Tolerance &quot; is seen as weak and elitist , typical of people who live far removed from the harsh realities of the street , where violent and unruly foreigners menace upstanding Dutch folks .
This notion of the elitist appeaser is not confined to the Netherlands .
In Israel , the educated Jewish activists who criticize Israeli abuses against Palestinians , the peaceniks who believe that negotiation is better than violence and that even Arabs have rights , are called , with a knowing sneer , &quot; beautiful souls . &quot;
The common man , rooted in the real world , supposedly knows better : uncompromising toughness , the hard line , is the only way to get results .
In the United States , the word &quot; liberal , &quot; in the mouths of populist radio hosts and right @-@ wing politicians , has become almost synonymous with &quot; effete East Coast snob &quot; or , worse , &quot; New York intellectual . &quot;
Liberals , in this view , are not only soft , but are somehow distinctly un @-@ American .
The association of elites with foreignness , tolerance , and metropolitan cities is nothing new .
Elites often can speak foreign languages , and big cities are traditionally more tolerant and open to mixed populations .
Modern populism - American politicians running , or pretending to run , &quot; against Washington , &quot; or French populists speaking for &quot; deep France &quot; - is invariably hostile to capital cities .
Brussels , the capital of the European Union , stands for everything populists , whether left or right , hate .
And Muslim immigrants live in Amsterdam , London , or Marseilles , not in the kind of small towns where right @-@ wing populists find most of their support .
Still , the politics of resentment works best when it can tap into real fears .
There are reasons for people to feel anxious about economic globalization , pan @-@ European bureaucracy , the huge and not always effectively controlled influx of immigrants , and the aggression of radical political Islam .
These anxieties have too often been ignored .
There is a sense among many Europeans , not just in the Netherlands , that they have been abandoned in a fast @-@ changing world , that multi @-@ national corporations are more powerful than nation @-@ states , that the urban rich and highly educated do fine and ordinary folks in the provinces languish , while democratically elected politicians are not only powerless , but have abjectly surrendered to these larger forces that threaten the common man .
Tolerance is seen as not just weak , but as a betrayal .
The Muslim threat is , of course , not a fantasy .
A small number of ideological extremists has inflicted real violence in the name of Islam , and will continue to do so .
But the popular resentment of Islam goes deeper and wider .
Wilders , and others like him , are not just attacking Islamic extremists .
His success is based on that sense of tolerance as betrayal .
And , as so often happens , the loathing of elites has found an outlet in the loathing of outsiders , who look different and whose ways are strange .
We must fight Islamic extremism , but not by tapping into the darkest gut feelings of the unthinking mob .
Nothing good ever came from that .
A Warrant of Hypocrisy
LONDON - Earlier this month , the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) upheld the request of the court &apos;s chief prosecutor to issue an arrest warrant for Omar el @-@ Bashir , the President of Sudan , charging him with war crimes and crimes against humanity .
Bashir responded by expelling foreign aid agencies looking after the refugee camps in Darfur .
This is the first time that a sitting head of state has been indicted for war crimes , with reaction around the world mainly divided between those who hailed the move as a great step for international justice and those who condemned it as colonialism .
Both positions are hopelessly buried in intellectual and moral fog .
The warrant was no leap forward .
From the legal point of view , it makes no difference whether the accused is a sitting or former head of state .
But it makes an enormous practical difference that an incumbent ruler can do a lot more future damage to his people than an ex @-@ ruler , and therefore should be given no incentive to retaliate .
As a result of Bashir &apos;s policies , 300,000 people are estimated to have died and 2.7 million displaced in Darfur .
The expulsion of the aid agencies has put over a million Darfuris at risk of epidemics and starvation .
According to the statute that established the ICC , the prosecutor is required to ensure that any prosecution is in the interests of the victims as well as of justice .
But , to lawyers like the ICC prosecutor , the abstract claims of justice are more vivid than any concrete duty of protection .
In this case , justice comes with poisoned arrows .
Emboldened by the warrant and its elusive suggestion of international support , the Darfuri rebels , the Justice and Equality Movement , have walked out of peace talks with Sudan &apos;s government .
Meanwhile , Bashir , with little to lose , will no doubt take the opportunity to attack his enemies .
The counter @-@ argument is that the threat of indictment will deter rulers from wicked behavior .
But the law will deter only if its sanctions are credible .
A law that cannot be enforced deters no one .
In fact , it weakens respect for law .
Moreover , while the fear of being hauled off to The Hague may have
Whatever the attractions of giving criminals &quot; nowhere to hide , whatever the consequences , &quot; the consequences cannot be ignored when the criminals are heads of state .
The policy of never negotiating with terrorists cannot be scaled up to state level when hundreds of thousands of lives are at stake .
The charge of colonialism , meanwhile , is simply reflex : colonialism no longer exists .
The charge that international law is
In the Nuremberg trial of 1946 , which laid the basis of current international law , the main charge against the Nazi leaders was that of &quot; planning and waging aggressive war . &quot;
Prohibition of war except for self @-@ defense is embedded in the United Nations Charter .
But the ICC &apos;s creators deemed the waging of aggressive war - which the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg called &quot; the supreme international crime &quot; - to be outside the court &apos;s jurisdiction .
This guaranteed legal immunity for the leaders who carried out the invasion of Iraq .
The charge of selective application also applies to the Bashir warrant .
Bashir stands accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity .
The latter were first defined in the Nuremberg principles of 1950 to include murder , extermination , enslavement , deportation and &quot; other inhumane acts . &quot;
In 1998 , these other acts were clarified to mean false imprisonment , torture , rape , persecution of a group , enforced disappearance of persons , and apartheid .
It comes as no surprise , then , to read in the
The answer is simple : where the interests of a UN Security Council member or one of their clients are at stake , the court &apos;s jurisdiction ends .
The ICC is like a cobweb : small flies get stuck , but wasps and hornets get through .
Until the United States ratifies the ICC treaty , the Court is bound to seem to many to be little more than a politicized kangaroo court .
Without American support , it has little hope of earning legitimacy , let alone doing its job effectively .
The Security Council has the power to defer the warrant for Bashir &apos;s arrest for renewable periods of one year .
It can do this indefinitely , and it seems likely that it will .
The idea is that deferring the warrant will give the Security Council leverage over Sudan .
Gareth Evans , a former Australian Foreign Minister , has called it &quot; a powerful diplomatic tool , &quot; while the
If this proves true , the ICC and its sponsors have muddled justice with diplomacy .
If the world can dispense justice only at the expense of the weak and to the advantage of the strong , it should stick to the older tools of crime prevention : force and negotiation , and leave justice out of it .
A Watershed Doctrine for America
LOS ANGELES - As the United States stumbles through its economic challenges at home , the pressure of world events will not subside .
But America &apos;s ability to address them has changed .
Its fiscal weakness limits its ability to act as global policeman .
Despite the relatively costless overthrow of the Qaddafi regime , America &apos;s prolonged interventions in Afghanistan and Iraq have severely strained the public &apos;s tolerance for an active foreign policy .
Nonetheless , the US seems destined to remain the world &apos;s most important actor for the foreseeable future .
But today it is an actor without a script - it lacks a strategic guide comparable to the Cold War &apos;s containment doctrine to prioritize policy .
Quite simply , the ad hoc policymaking that directed interventions in the Balkans , Somalia , southwest Asia , and the Middle East in the past two decades will not suffice in this new era of limitations .
This suggests that the US should seek out an overarching strategy to discipline its impulses to fight wars of choice or engage in nation @-@ building efforts .
President Barack Obama &apos;s 2010 National Security Strategy nurtures broad policy aspirations - &quot; &#91; n &#93; ow we must position the United States to champion mutual interests among nations and peoples &quot; - but falls short as a practical guide .
I suggest an alternative strategy , one already embedded in America history , though largely unrecognized .
But making explicit what lies implicit can sharpen US decision @-@ making .
I call this strategy the &quot; Watershed Doctrine . &quot;
A watershed is a tipping point , a turning point , a game changer .
When the US has confronted a &quot; negative watershed &quot; - a lethal threat to the country - it committed meaningful financial and human resources in order to address the risks .
Positive watersheds - opportunities to engineer seismic shifts in international or regional political affairs through nation @-@ building , or to use economic and military assistance to prevent plausible negative watersheds - demand an equal level of commitment .
The Watershed concept provides policymakers with a standard to use - or at the very least to debate .
It is an organizing tool for policymaking : Is an international challenge a watershed or not ?
If so , get involved .
If not , stay out .
We find watersheds throughout American history .
The War of 1812 and the Civil War are clear examples .
Had American forces not expelled the British from US territory in the first , and had Abraham Lincoln and the Union not prevailed in the second , the country would have been balkanized and unable to become the dominant power of the twentieth century .
By contrast , America &apos;s flirtation with colonialism in the Spanish American War , its involvement in Mexico , Central America , and the Caribbean throughout the twentieth century , and , arguably , World War I , were not watersheds for the US .
But America &apos;s inability after the Great War to overcome Old World politics at Versailles and isolationism at home marked a failed opportunity to promote a positive watershed .
That failure placed the world on the path to the negative watershed posed by Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan .
Nothing foreordained that the US and its allies would prevail .
Had the Axis &apos;s negative watershed succeeded , the US would have become a far different country .
A positive watershed , under @-@ appreciated today , developed in the years immediately after World War II with the political transformation of Germany and Japan .
America &apos;s remarkable investment of resources in this outcome made both countries stable , peaceful democracies , thereby eliminating them as adversaries and turning them into vital bulwarks against the next harbinger of a negative watershed , the Soviet Union .
Unlike the battle against the Axis , the US fought the Cold War in many ways , on many fronts , and over many decades - using politics , economics , and nuclear deterrence , as well as limited armed action , to ensure the USSR &apos;s containment .
In time , the US had to accept that each political contest or military battle lost was not a watershed as long as its core interests in Europe , the Far East , and Latin America were not threatened .
Through trial and error - backed by a durable political and economic system - the US prevailed and the Soviet Union disintegrated .
The rise of Islamic fundamentalism poses another historic challenge , though one that is far more inchoate than any that the US has faced before .
In other times , the challenge would not even be called a watershed .
But the risk that weapons of mass destruction could be turned against the US makes it so .
Then there is the &quot; Arab Spring , &quot; a potential positive watershed that calls upon the US to decide how deep a political , economic , and military commitment it ought to make to nurture positive results .
Today , the US is a more sober and realistic country than it was in the heyday of the early post @-@ Cold War period .
But , in the aftermath of setbacks in regions where it intervened , and with heightened economic distress at home , the US finds itself uncertain about how to respond to changing global events .
Pursuing a &quot; Watershed Doctrine &quot; might provide the right answer .
A Way out of Tibet &apos;s Morass
NEW YORK - China has survived the 50th anniversary of the failed uprising by Tibetans against Chinese rule in 1959 without major protests .
But , to keep Tibetans off the streets , China &apos;s government had to saturate the entire Tibetan plateau with troops and secretly detain in unmarked jails hundreds of people for &quot; legal education . &quot;
Those moves suggest that Tibet has become an increasingly serious concern for China &apos;s rulers , one that they have not yet found ways to handle without damaging their standing in Tibet and around the world .
A year ago , Chinese and Western intellectuals competed in dismissing popular interest in Tibet as a childlike confusion with the imaginary Shangri @-@ la of the 1937 film Lost Horizon .
But after more than 150 protests in Tibet against Chinese rule over the past 12 months , concerns about the area seem anything but fanciful .
Indeed , Tibet could soon replace Taiwan as a factor in regional stability and an important issue in international relations .
The areas populated by Tibetans cover a quarter of China ; to have such a large part of the country &apos;s territory under military control and cut off from the outside world weakens the Communist Party &apos;s claims to legitimacy and world power status .
Last year &apos;s protests were the largest and most widespread in Tibet for decades .
Participants included nomads , farmers , and students , who in theory should have been the most grateful to China for modernizing Tibet &apos;s economy .
Many carried the forbidden Tibetan national flag , suggesting that they think of Tibet as a separate country in the past , and in about 20 incidents government offices were burned down .
In one case , there were even attacks on Chinese migrants , leading to 18 deaths .
It is hard not to see these events as a challenge to China &apos;s rule .
The government &apos;s reaction was to blame the problem on outside instigation .
It sent in more troops , hid details of protestors &quot; deaths , gave a life sentence to an AIDS educator who had copied illegal CDs from India , and for months banned foreigners and journalists from the Tibetan plateau .
In November , Chinese officials , live on national TV , ridiculed Tibetan exiles &quot; proposals for negotiation .
They canceled a European summit because of a meeting between French President Nicolas Sarkozy and the Dalai Lama , and regularly imply that Tibetans are terrorists .
On March 28 , Tibetans in Lhasa had to celebrate &quot; Serf Emancipation Day &quot; to endorse China &apos;s explanation for its take @-@ over 50 years ago .
But such class @-@ struggle terminology reminds people of the Cultural Revolution and , since such language would be unimaginable in inland China today , only makes Tibet seem more separate .
Although both sides claim to be ready for dialogue , they are talking at cross @-@ purposes : the exiles say that talks must be based on their autonomy proposals , while China says that it will discuss only the Dalai Lama &apos;s &quot; personal status &quot; - where he would live in Beijing should he return to China .
Visceral sparring matches are continuing , with the Dalai Lama recently describing Tibetans &quot; lives under China as a &quot; hell on earth . &quot;
He was almost certainly referring to life during the Maoist years rather than the present , but his remarks enabled China to issue more media attacks and raise the political temperature further .
Western governments have been accused of interference , but it is unlikely that any want to derail their relations with China , especially during an economic crisis .
Last October , British Foreign Minister David Miliband was so anxious to maintain Chinese good will that he came close to denouncing his predecessors &quot; recognition of Tibet &apos;s autonomy 100 years ago .
But foreign concerns about the status of China &apos;s mandate in Tibet are understandable : Tibet is the strategic high ground between the two most important nuclear powers in Asia .
Good governance on the plateau is good for everyone .
China could help to lessen growing tensions by recognizing these concerns as reasonable .
The Dalai Lama could cut down on foreign meetings and acknowledge that , despite China &apos;s general emasculation of intellectual and religious life in Tibet , some aspects of Tibetan culture ( like modern art , film and literature ) are relatively healthy .
Western observers could accept the exiles &quot; assurances that their proposals on autonomy are negotiable and not bottom @-@ line demands , rather than damning them before talks start .
All sides would gain by paying attention to two Tibetan officials in China who dared to speak out last month .
A retired prefectural governor from Kardze told the Singapore paper
The Party has so far been following a more conventional strategy : last week it sent a delegation of officials to the US ( the first ever sent , it said , to have been composed solely of Tibetans - a fact that one might expect them to have been embarrassed to admit ) and had its leader , Shingtsa Tenzin Choedak , tell journalists that Tibetans enjoy freedom of religion .
As anyone who has worked in Tibet recently knows well , this was an inexactitude : since at least 1996 , all Tibetans who work for the government and all Tibetan students in Tibet have been forbidden any Buddhist practice , even though it is illegal under Chinese law to stop people from practicing an official religion .
China &apos;s government could improve the situation overnight by sacking the officials responsible for such illegal policies , and by apologizing to Tibetans for having overlooked such abuses for 15 years .
And it could start reassessing its Tibetan policies instead of increasing controls and allegations .
Until then , China &apos;s quest for international respect is set to remain elusive and Tibet is likely to stay on the world &apos;s agenda .
A Weak Start for START
LOS ANGELES - A strange sense of déjà vu is gripping Washington these days , as the debate over ratification by the United States Senate of the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty ( New START ) with Russia heats up .
Spats have broken out between the Obama administration , future presidential contenders , senators , and arms control and defense experts .
There may not be nostalgia for the Cold War in any of this , but much of that era &apos;s mindset can be perceived again in the arguments being knocked about .
The Senate must decide whether New START enhances American security .
Unfortunately , whatever the decision -- which has been delayed perhaps until late Fall to allow Obama &apos;s administration more time to muster support for the treaty -- the US and Russian governments will continue to place each other in the nuclear crosshairs for the foreseeable future .
New START builds on a legacy of strategic nuclear arms limitation that goes back to the 1970 &quot; s .
Former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger captured the allure in recent testimony : &quot; The subject of nuclear arms control grew out of the seemingly paradoxical effort of those who had created the largest and most destructive arsenals to avoid by negotiation the ultimate consequences of their own decisions . &quot;
Over the years &quot; avoiding ... the ultimate consequences &quot; through limitations butted against the bitter legacy of the surprise attacks suffered by both the US and Russia in World War II .
After the war , each adopted a &quot; never be surprised again &quot; policy , and so went on to invest trillions of dollars in a multitude of hardened , mobile , and concealed nuclear weapons to deter the other .
The result produced tens of thousands of nuclear warheads .
In time , strategic arms control treaties became the measure of the political relationship .
With the Soviet Union &apos;s collapse , a unique opportunity to end the nuclear competition emerged .
While elimination did take place in the former Soviet Republics , the Kremlin hung on to its nuclear arsenal - the last vestige of Russia &apos;s former superpower status .
Likewise , US administrations have remained wedded to the Bomb .
As a result , the &quot; nuclear hostage &quot; relationship of the Cold War continued , capped in 2002 by the Strategic Offensive Reduction Treaty , which set the upper limit on warheads at 2,200 by 2012 .
In the spring of 2009 , speaking in Prague , Obama advanced a bold ambition : a world without nuclear weapons .
But his audacity confronted a world in which the Bomb remained at the heart of many countries &quot; deterrence strategies .
Obama muddled his message further by admitting that he did not expect to see abolition in his lifetime .
Nonetheless , New START marks a step in the direction of disarmament .
It would limit each country to 1,550 strategic warheads on 700 deployed delivery vehicles .
Verification relies on 18 on @-@ site inspections , notification of forces in and out of service , missile @-@ test flight information and other data exchanges , plus a consultative commission to iron out compliance .
Were the US Senate to fail to ratify New START , the treaty &apos;s proponents argue that the US would lose predictability about Russia &apos;s nuclear activities , resulting in greater distrust and risk of miscalculation , making both sides less secure .
But arms @-@ control skeptics take issue with this .
Throughout the Cold War , they viewed restraints on America &apos;s development and fielding of nuclear weapons as compromising national security .
Fears that the Soviet Union would cheat reinforced their position .
And cheating did indeed upset the broader superpower relationship .
Today , similar apprehensions stoke opposition to New START .
To allay such concerns , the Obama administration committed to a multi @-@ year increase in the budgets of the US military &apos;s nuclear @-@ weapons laboratories .
And in the April 10 release of the Nuclear Posture Review , Obama &apos;s administration warned nuclear @-@ armed states and others tempted to violate the Nuclear Non @-@ Proliferation Treaty that they would remain nuclear targets .
Missile defense has become another bone of contention .
The language in the preamble to New START states that the agreement will not &quot; undermine the viability and effectiveness of the strategic offensive arms of the Parties . &quot;
Critics contend that the clause , along with the Kremlin &apos;s implied warning that it could withdraw from the treaty unilaterally were America &apos;s defenses to become too robust , provides the Kremlin with leverage to impede deployment of any strategic missile @-@ defense system .
The Obama administration repeatedly denies such claims , along with others that the treaty &apos;s verification provisions remain insufficient .
It scoffs at assertions that Russia would cheat by multiplying warheads on bombers or new rail @-@ based missile carriers , arguing that the Kremlin would want to avoid America &apos;s compensatory response .
But Obama &apos;s team does concede one point : New START fails to curtail Russia &apos;s large numerical advantage in tactical nuclear weapons .
Arguing that short @-@ range devices pose no risk to the American homeland , US negotiators plan to press for reductions in follow @-@ on talks .
Despite the claims by both the Bush and Obama administrations that Russia and the US are no longer adversaries , it seems that the rapprochement has not translated into elimination of mutual nuclear targeting .
The result , even if new START is ratified , should satisfy no one .
A Window of Opportunity for European Defense
MADRID - With budgets exceptionally tight in Europe nowadays , worries about European defense have been growing .
Paradoxically , however , developments in 2010 offer hope for the future .
The defense agreement signed in November by France and the United Kingdom is composed of two treaties , which cover joint deployment of their armed forces , nuclear deterrence , and improved equipment and communications .
This initiative has the firm political backing of both countries &quot; leaders , and expresses a clear determination to unite against common threats .
Implemented correctly , these treaties could become a hopeful precedent for the entire European Union .
By transcending strictly national limits , these treaties chart the future path of European defense and will help determine the course of Europe &apos;s relations with the United States and NATO .
To better judge the treaties &quot; worth , we must remember the context in which they were conceived .
In 1998 , the Saint Malo Declaration by French President Jacques Chirac and British Prime Minister Tony Blair indicated both countries &quot; determination to reinforce the EU &apos;s security and defense capabilities .
Originally reluctant to accept a Europe with autonomous military capacity , the United Kingdom had learned from the intervention in Kosovo that the EU must be able to respond to crises rapidly and efficiently .
The Saint Malo Declaration signaled that the EU &apos;s leading military powers were prepared to develop their own defense policy , though one not fully autonomous of NATO .
Indeed , through the Berlin Plus agreements , which facilitate use of NATO resources for missions undertaken under the European Defense and Security Policy ( ESDP ) , NATO recognized the ESDP &apos;s maturation over the past decade .
Indeed , the EU has undertaken 24 missions in Europe , Africa , and Asia , differing in nature , scope , and aims , and combining military and civilian means .
Today , the EU is being asked to conduct complex missions in adverse circumstances .
In doing so , Europe must draw on the lessons of its past successes .
We Europeans need to respond favorably , quickly , and effectively .
Defense missions must be more adaptable , prompt , multinational , and multi @-@ instrumental .
They must be focused on stability and security , regardless of the security situation or the nature of the conflict .
Yet it is clear that European defense is now struggling mightily with public financing .
Moreover , the latest Eurobarometer poll shows that defense is the last thing that Europeans are worried about .
It is precisely here that the Franco @-@ British agreement becomes vitally important .
The treaties mark an attempt to balance action and ambition in a context of economic crisis , fiscal consolidation , large @-@ scale defense transformations , increasing interdependencies , and global threats - from terrorism and nuclear proliferation to climate change , resource scarcity , and epidemics - that are impossible to tackle unilaterally .
It also sets a precedent for the UK , preparing the way for future prime ministers to make advances in this direction .
Reinforcing both countries &quot; military capacities indirectly reinforces those of the EU .
The quest for synergies and efficiency that is implied by the agreement could well become a driving force for the European Defense Agency .
The British may now consider the EDA a defense expenditure , but , when better defined , it could represent a source of savings for every EU country .
Moreover , the agreements foresee cooperation on cyber @-@ security , terrorism , satellite communications , and maritime security , which are also key elements of the Lisbon Treaty .
Likewise , the joint expeditionary forces established under the treaties could lead to the eventual creation of a wider structure , as they already contemplate &quot; bilateral cooperation with NATO , the European Union , the United Nations , or other operations . &quot;
Solidarity and agreement on political objectives are the pressing concerns of our age .
The new pact between France and the UK could be a historic step toward rationalizing defense spending rather than toward demilitarizing Europe .
It all depends on the path chosen .
In times of financial crisis , EU member states are unlikely to increase defense spending .
But if France and the UK understand how much their projection of power is linked to that of Europe , if they make cooperation reciprocal and expand it to other European countries - according to the formula foreseen in the treaties - we could eventually see an EU with the ability to assume the defense role expected of it by the global community .
By forcing greater efficiency and collaboration , misfortune can yield benefit .
This path can also ease US concerns about lower European defense spending .
The Franco @-@ British treaties do not address commitments to NATO , a key US interest , because any reduction in the number of European troops deployed abroad inevitably implies a greater economic burden for the US .
The Franco @-@ British agreement does , however , imply progress toward joint European military action , both in Europe and on the international scene , which will encourage the US .
So will the fact that the initiative comes from Europe &apos;s two major military powers ( whose combined defense spending represents half of the Continent &apos;s total ) , both of which have permanent seats on the UN Security Council .
All of this is part of the transatlantic community &apos;s continuing transformation from a set of organizations designed to defend territory against a known aggressor to something more flexible and dynamic .
Establishing joint management and overhauling conventional defense capacities will be a two @-@ pronged challenge : functional , owing to the traditional schema of defense organizations , and political , inasmuch as a cession of state sovereignty will be required .
Another , equally important challenge is cooperation between NATO and Russia , which agreed at NATO &apos;s Lisbon summit in November to collaborate on the Alliance &apos;s anti @-@ missile defenses .
This relationship must be based on cooperation that benefits both sides , and that respects certain common principals of governance and non @-@ interference .
But coordinating and sharing capacities can help both partners deal with the new nature of conflicts .
Here , the EU can exercise leadership , for this is a political process that has only just begun .
As British Prime Minister David Cameron said of the agreement with France : &quot; This is the beginning of something new , not an end in itself &quot; - words that echo those of Jean Monet , one of the Union &apos;s founding fathers , on cooperation in the West . &quot; This is not an end in itself , &quot; Monet said .
&quot; It is the beginning of the path toward a more ordered world that we must attain if we want to escape destruction . &quot;
The Franco @-@ British agreement in 2010 was one hopeful sign for 2011 and beyond : a step along the arduous but necessary path toward greater European security .
A World Bank for a New World
NEW YORK - The world is at a crossroads .
Either the global community will join together to fight poverty , resource depletion , and climate change , or it will face a generation of resource wars , political instability , and environmental ruin .
The World Bank , if properly led , can play a key role in averting these threats and the risks that they imply .
The global stakes are thus very high this spring as the Bank &apos;s 187 member countries choose a new president to succeed Robert Zoellick , whose term ends in July .
The World Bank was established in 1944 to promote economic development , and virtually every country is now a member .
Its central mission is to reduce global poverty and ensure that global development is environmentally sound and socially inclusive .
Achieving these goals would not only improve the lives of billions of people , but would also forestall violent conflicts that are stoked by poverty , famine , and struggles over scarce resources .
American officials have traditionally viewed the World Bank as an extension of United States foreign policy and commercial interests .
With the Bank just two blocks away from the White House on Pennsylvania Avenue , it has been all too easy for the US to dominate the institution .
Now many members , including Brazil , China , India , and several African countries , are raising their voices in support of more collegial leadership and an improved strategy that works for all .
From the Bank &apos;s establishment until today , the unwritten rule has been that the US government simply designates each new president : all 11 have been Americans , and not a single one has been an expert in economic development , the Bank &apos;s core responsibility , or had a career in fighting poverty or promoting environmental sustainability .
Instead , the US has selected Wall Street bankers and politicians , presumably to ensure that the Bank &apos;s policies are suitably friendly to US commercial and political interests .
Yet the policy is backfiring on the US and badly hurting the world .
Because of a long @-@ standing lack of strategic expertise at the top , the Bank has lacked a clear direction .
Many projects have catered to US corporate interests rather than to sustainable development .
The Bank has cut a lot of ribbons on development projects , but has solved far too few global problems .
For too long , the Bank &apos;s leadership has imposed US concepts that are often utterly inappropriate for the poorest countries and their poorest people .
For example , the Bank completely fumbled the exploding pandemics of AIDS , tuberculosis , and malaria during the 1990 &quot; s , failing to get help to where it was needed to curb these outbreaks and save millions of lives .
Even worse , the Bank advocated user fees and &quot; cost recovery &quot; for health services , thereby putting life @-@ saving health care beyond the reach of the poorest of the poor - precisely those most in need of it .
In 2000 , at the Durban AIDS Summit , I recommended a new &quot; Global Fund &quot; to fight these diseases , precisely on the grounds that the World Bank was not doing its job .
The Global Fund to Fight AIDS , TB , and Malaria emerged , and has since saved millions of lives , with malaria deaths in Africa alone falling by at least 30 % .
The Bank similarly missed crucial opportunities to support smallholder subsistence farmers and to promote integrated rural development more generally in impoverished rural communities in Africa , Asia , and Latin America .
For around 20 years , roughly from 1985 to 2005 , the Bank resisted the well @-@ proven use of targeted support for small landholders to enable impoverished subsistence farmers to improve yields and break out of poverty .
More recently , the Bank has increased its support for smallholders , but there is still far more that it can and should do .
The Bank &apos;s staff is highly professional , and would accomplish much more if freed from the dominance of narrow US interests and viewpoints .
The Bank has the potential to be a catalyst of progress in key areas that will shape the world &apos;s future .
Its priorities should include agricultural productivity ; mobilization of information technologies for sustainable development ; deployment of low @-@ carbon energy systems ; and quality education for all , with greater reliance on new forms of communication to reach hundreds of millions of under @-@ served students .
The Bank &apos;s activities currently touch on all of these areas , but it fails to lead effectively on any of them .
Despite the excellence of its staff , the Bank has not been strategic or agile enough to be an effective agent of change .
Getting the Bank &apos;s role right will be hard work , requiring expertise at the top .
Most importantly , the Bank &apos;s new president should have first @-@ hand professional experience regarding the range of pressing development challenges .
The world should not accept the status quo .
A World Bank leader who once again comes from Wall Street or from US politics would be a heavy blow for a planet in need of creative solutions to complex development challenges .
The Bank needs an accomplished professional who is ready to tackle the great challenges of sustainable development from day one . &amp; nbsp ;
A World of Convergence
WASHINGTON , DC - For almost two centuries , starting around 1800 , the history of the global economy was broadly one of divergence in average incomes .
In relative terms , rich countries got even richer .
There was growth in the poorer countries , too , but it was slower than rich @-@ country growth , and the discrepancy in prosperity between rich and poor countries increased .
This &quot; divergence &quot; was very pronounced in colonial times .
It slowed after the 1940 &quot; s , but it was only around 1990 that an entirely new trend could be observed - convergence between average incomes in the group of rich countries and the rest of the world .
From 1990 to 2010 , average per capita income in the emerging and developing countries grew almost three times as fast as average income in Europe , North America , and Japan , compared to lower or , at most , equal growth rates for almost two centuries .
This has been a revolutionary change , but will this 20 @-@ year @-@ old trend continue ?
Will convergence remain rapid , or will it be a passing phase in world economic history ?
Long @-@ term projections based on short @-@ term trends have often been mistaken .
In the late 1950 &quot; s , after the Soviet Union launched the first spacecraft , eminent Western economists predicted that Soviet income would overtake that of the United States in a few decades .
After all , the Soviet Union was investing close to 40 % of its GDP , twice the ratio in the West .
Later , in the 1980 &quot; s , Japan &apos;s spectacular growth led some to predict that it would overtake the US , not only in per capita terms , but even in terms of some measures of &quot; economic power . &quot;
These kinds of projections have often been based on simple extrapolations of exponential trends .
Over two or three decades , substantial differences in compound growth rates quickly generate huge changes in economic size or per capita income .
Will the recent predictions of rapid ongoing global convergence similarly turn out to be wrong , or will most of the emerging countries sustain a large positive growth differential and get much closer to the advanced economies &quot; income levels ?
Understanding the phenomenon of &quot; catch @-@ up &quot; growth is key to answering this question .
Trade and foreign direct investment have made it much easier for emerging countries to absorb and adapt best @-@ practice technology invented in the advanced economies .
The information revolution , allowing much easier access to and diffusion of knowledge , has accelerated the process .
Once they developed the basic institutions needed for a market economy and learned how to avoid serious macroeconomic policy mistakes , emerging countries started benefiting from catch @-@ up growth .
Those with very high investment rates , mostly in East Asia , grew faster than those with lower investment rates ; but , overall , catch @-@ up growth probably has been adding 2 @-@ 4 percentage points to many emerging and developing countries &quot; annual growth rates .
At the same time , population growth decreased , adding at least another point to the pace of per capita growth .
This process will likely continue for another decade or two , depending on where in the process particular countries are .
It is true that catch @-@ up growth is easier in manufacturing than in other sectors , a point recently emphasized by Dani Rodrik of Harvard University , and it may be that a good portion of it has been exhausted in manufacturing by the best @-@ performing firms in emerging countries .
But there is still a lot of &quot; internal &quot; room for catch @-@ up growth , as less efficient domestic firms become more competitive with more efficient ones .
The dispersion of &quot; total factor productivity &quot; - the joint productivity of capital and labor - inside emerging countries has been found to be large .
Moreover , sectors such as agriculture , energy , transport , and trade also have catch @-@ up @-@ growth potential , through imports of technology , institutional know @-@ how , and organizational models .
Of course , temporary disturbances , a worsening of global payments imbalances , or macroeconomic policy mistakes , including those made in advanced economies and affecting the entire world economy , could undermine global growth . But the underlying &quot; convergence differential , &quot; owing to catch @-@ up growth , is likely to continue to reduce the income gap between the old advanced economies and emerging @-@ market countries .
The Soviet Union never was able to build the institutions to allow for catch @-@ up economic growth .
Japan slowed down after it had basically caught up . China , India , Brazil , Turkey , and others may have firms operating close to the world &apos;s technological frontier , but they still have a lot of unused catch @-@ up potential .
The more that these countries can invest while ensuring macroeconomic stability and balance @-@ of @-@ payments sustainability , the faster they can adopt better technology and production processes .
In that case , they can continue to catch up , at least for the next decade or more .
The convergence process is going to slow , but not yet .
A World of Multiple Reserve Currencies
BERKELEY - The competition for reserve @-@ currency status is conventionally portrayed as a winner @-@ take @-@ all game .
There is room , in this view , for just one full @-@ fledged international currency .
The only question is which national currency will capture the role .
Market logic , it is argued , dictates this result .
For importers and exporters , quoting prices in the same currency - say , the dollar - as other importers and exporters avoids confusing one &apos;s customers .
For central banks , holding reserves in the same currency as other central banks means holding the most liquid asset .
With everyone else buying , selling , and holding dollars , it pays to do the same , since markets in dollar @-@ denominated assets will be the deepest .
While it is always possible that there could come a tipping point at which everyone migrates from one currency to another , the network @-@ based nature of the international monetary system , it is said , leaves room for only one true international unit .
But this premise is wrong , for three reasons .
First , the notion that importers , exporters , and bond underwriters will want to use the same unit as other importers , exporters , and bond underwriters holds less weight in a world where everyone has a mobile phone that can compare currency values in real time .
Once upon a time , comparing prices in dollars and euros might have been beyond the capacity of all but the most sophisticated traders and investors .
Nowadays , &quot; Currency Converter &quot; is one of the Apple app store &apos;s top ten downloads .
Second , the sheer size of today &apos;s global economy means that there is now room for deep and liquid markets in more than one currency .
Finally , the view that there can be just one international and reserve currency at any point in time is inconsistent with history .
Before 1914 , there were three international currencies : the British pound , the French franc , and the German mark .
The dollar and the pound then shared international primacy in the 1920 &quot; s and 1930 &quot; s .
Today , currencies other than the dollar account for 40 % of identified international reserves .
The implication is that the dollar , the euro , and the renminbi will share the roles of invoicing currency , settlement currency , and reserve currency in coming years .
To be sure , all three currencies have their critics .
Willingness to hold the dollar may be undercut by concern with America &apos;s twin fiscal and external deficits .
Uncertainty about whether the European Union will hold together could limit the use of the euro .
And , although China is aggressively promoting international use of the renminbi in trade settlements , it has a long way to go before its currency is attractive as a vehicle for foreign investment and holding reserves .
But the very fact that there are questions about all three currencies means that none of them will obviously dominate .
There will be an international market for all three .
Some worry about the stability of this world of multiple international currencies .
They shouldn &apos;t : a more decentralized international monetary system is precisely what is needed to prevent a replay of the financial crisis .
Countries seeking additional reserves will not be forced to accumulate only - or even mainly - dollars .
No one country will be able to run current @-@ account deficits and use foreign finance to indulge in financial excesses as freely as the United States did in recent years .
This will make the world a safer place financially .
Will exchange rates between the major currencies be dangerously unstable ?
Will those responsible for managing central @-@ bank reserves , seeking to maximize returns , shift erratically between those currencies ?
The fear underlying such questions rests on a misunderstanding of the behavior of central @-@ banks reserve managers .
Reserve managers do not have the high @-@ powered financial incentives of hedge fund managers to seek to maximize returns .
They do not have to exceed their previous high @-@ water mark in order to draw a paycheck .
They have social responsibilities , and they know it .
This means that they have less incentive to herd - to buy or sell a currency just because everyone else is buying or selling it .
They can adopt a longer time horizon , because , unlike private fund managers , they do not have to satisfy impatient investors .
Compared to private investors , then , central @-@ bank reserve managers are more likely to act as stabilizing speculators .
The result will be to make the exchange rates between the three international currencies more stable , not less .
The world economy of the twenty @-@ first century is becoming more multipolar .
There is no reason why the same should not be true of its international monetary system .
In the end , that will be a good thing .
A World of Regions
NEW YORK - In almost every part of the world , long @-@ festering problems can be solved through closer cooperation among neighboring countries .
The European Union provides the best model for how neighbors that have long fought each other can come together for mutual benefit .
Ironically , today &apos;s decline in American global power may lead to more effective regional cooperation .
This may seem an odd time to praise the EU , given the economic crises in Greece , Spain , Portugal , and Ireland .
Europe has not solved the problem of balancing the interests of strong economies in the North and those of weaker economies in the South .
Still , the EU &apos;s accomplishments vastly outweigh its current difficulties .
The EU has created a zone of peace where once there was relentless war .
It has provided the institutional framework for reuniting Western and Eastern Europe .
It has fostered regional @-@ scale infrastructure .
The single market has been crucial to making Europe one of the most prosperous places on the planet .
And the EU has been a global leader on environmental sustainability .
For these reasons , the EU provides a unique model for other regions that remain stuck in a mire of conflict , poverty , lack of infrastructure , and environmental crisis .
New regional organizations , such as the African Union , look to the EU as a role model for regional problem @-@ solving and integration .
Yet , to this day , most regional groupings remain too weak to solve their members &quot; pressing problems .
In most other regions , ongoing political divisions have their roots in the Cold War or the colonial era .
During the Cold War , neighbors often competed with each other by &quot; choosing sides &quot; - allying themselves with either the United States or the Soviet Union . Pakistan tilted towards the Americans ; India towards the Soviets .
Countries had little incentive to make peace with their neighbors as long as they enjoyed the financial support of the US or the USSR .
On the contrary , continued conflict often led directly to more financial aid .
Indeed , the US and Europe often acted to undermine regional integration , which they believed would limit their roles as power brokers .
Thus , when Gamal Abdel Nasser launched a call for Arab unity in the 1950 &quot; s , the US and Europe viewed him as a threat . The US undercut his call for strong Arab cooperation and nationalism , fearing a loss of American influence in the Middle East .
As a result , Nasser increasingly aligned Egypt with the Soviet Union , and ultimately failed in the quest to unite Arab interests .
Today &apos;s reality , however , is that great powers can no longer divide and conquer other regions , even if they try .
The age of colonialism is finished , and we are now moving beyond the age of US global dominance .
Recent events in the Middle East and Central Asia , for example , clearly reflect the decline of US influence .
America &apos;s failure to win any lasting geopolitical advantage through the use of military force in Iraq and Afghanistan underscore the limits of its power , while its budget crisis ensures that it will cut its military resources sooner rather than later .
Similarly , the US played no role in the political revolutions underway in the Arab world , and still has not demonstrated any clear policy response to them .
President Barack Obama &apos;s recent speech on the Middle East is a further display of America &apos;s declining influence in the region .
The speech drew the most attention for calling on Israel to return to its 1967 borders , but the effect was undercut when Israel flatly rejected the US position .
The world could see that there would be little practical follow @-@ up .
The rest of the speech was even more revealing , though it drew little public notice .
When Obama discussed the Arab political upheavals , he noted the importance of economic development .
Yet when it came to US action , the most that the US could offer financially was slight debt relief for Egypt ( $ 1 billion ) , scant loan guarantees ( $ 1 billion ) , and some insurance coverage for private investments .
The real message was that the US government would contribute very little financially to the region &apos;s economic recovery .
The days when a country could depend on large @-@ scale American financing are over .
We are , in short , moving to a multi @-@ polar world .
The Cold War &apos;s end has not led to greater US dominance , but rather to the dissemination of global power to many regions . East Asia , South Asia , Latin America , and the Middle East have new geopolitical and economic influence .
Each region , increasingly , must find its own path to economic development , energy and food security , and effective infrastructure , and must do so in a world threatened by climate change and resource scarcity .
Each region , therefore , will have to secure its own future .
Of course , this should occur in a context of cooperation across regions as well as within them .
The Middle East is in a strong position to help itself .
There is a high degree of economic complementarity between Egypt and the oil @-@ rich Gulf States .
Egypt can supply technology , manpower , and considerable expertise for the Arab region , while the Gulf provides energy and finance , as well as some specialists .
The long @-@ delayed vision of Arab economic unity should be returned to the table .
Israel , too , should recognize that its long @-@ term security and prosperity will be enhanced as part of an economically stronger region .
For the sake of its own national interests , Israel must come to terms with its neighbors .
Other regions also will find that the decline of US power increases the urgency of stronger cooperation between neighbors .
Some of the greatest tensions in the world - say India and Pakistan , or North and South Korea - should be defused as part of region @-@ wide strengthening .
As the EU shows , ancient enmities and battle lines can be turned into mutually beneficial cooperation if a region looks forward , to resolving its long @-@ term needs , rather than backward , to its long @-@ standing rivalries and conflicts .
A World of Trouble
So you thought this year was bad !
2009 began with the flattening of Gaza .
Unemployment is surging in many countries , even though we can detect the first signs of recovery from the recession .
Many bankers , meanwhile , are back to the trough as though nothing had happened .
Greed was just taking a temporary break .
Pakistan is hit hard by a wave of monstrous Taleban attacks , and in Afghanistan NATO troops die and are terribly injured in large numbers .
The &quot; Peace Process &quot; in the Middle East becomes ever more clearly the great oxymoron in international relations .
Preparations for the climate change conference in Copenhagen are dominated by charges and recriminations .
Even President Barack Obama , of whom miracles were expected , turns out to be no more than a very talented mortal .
He receives the Nobel Peace Prize in the hope that maybe he can make next year better .
He &apos;ll certainly have his work cut out .
Will 2010 see a recovery shaped like a &quot; V &quot; or a &quot; W , &quot; or will there simply be an anemic tilt towards a very distant prospect of better times ? I suspect the latter , with unemployment and cuts in public spending - certainly in much of Europe and the United States - constraining economic confidence .
That will make the politics of dealing with global imbalances all the more difficult .
Let &apos;s be clear about what is happening .
The deliberate undervaluation of China &apos;s currency , and the fall in the dollar , are both putting a squeeze on the export prospects of the European Union members and other countries like Canada and Mexico , and China &apos;s covert and not so covert export subsidies and import barriers exacerbate the problem .
American exasperation has probably been curbed by its need to borrow so much money - much of it from China .
But Obama &apos;s recent tariffs on tire imports may be a sign of things to come .
Chinese behavior will put increasing political pressure on those of us in Europe and the US who are delighted about China &apos;s economic success and who argue for free trade .
Weaker economies will also feel the pinch .
I hope that China &apos;s sophisticated economic managers understand that either their country &apos;s behavior will have to change , or we are likely to face a massive trade conflict and disruption of global commerce .
The patience even of free traders will wear thin in 2010 .
Rows about the short @-@ term costs of dealing with climate change won &apos;t make it any easier to keep markets open .
But failure to act now will only raise the price of delayed action at some moment in the future .
While the most hopeful outcome of the Copenhagen summit - a global pact limiting carbon emissions - has now been all but ruled out , the second @-@ best outcome - negotiations on specific measures continue within a framework of general goodwill - would not be a disaster .
Anything short of that would be very bad news .
In either of these two more optimistic scenarios , one consequence will be the transfer - actual or putative - of considerable sums of money from developed to emerging or developing countries to cover some of their costs for emissions abatement and environmental protection .
Now just imagine the problems that legislators in developed democracies will face when they must explain why billions of dollars and euros should be handed over to China , whose deliberately undervalued currency is costing their constituents their jobs .
Obama &apos;s commitment to substantial nuclear disarmament bodes well for the Nuclear Non @-@ Proliferation Treaty Renewal Conference in 2010 .
But , even with progress there , the problems created by the threat of nuclear weapons development in North Korea and Iran will remain .
American and European diplomatic engagement with Iran is welcome .
But what happens if this brings either no Iranian commitment to refrain from weaponizing nuclear power , or no acceptance of tough monitoring of such a pledge ?
China and Russia seem unlikely to support any further sanctions against Iran if diplomacy fails .
China &apos;s energy relationship with Iran grows ever stronger , and Russia continues to see its mission internationally as making trouble wherever it can .
This is just a little of what 2010 perhaps has in store - and no mention yet of Israeli settlement building on the West Bank , Pakistan &apos;s struggle against murderous extremists , and NATO &apos;s bloody difficulties in propping up a discredited and corrupt Afghan regime in order to prevent the country from falling back into the hands of the Taliban and Al @-@ Qaeda .
Still , however gloomy the outlook , we do stagger on - the flowers still bloom , the breeze stirs the trees , the birds sing , and children laugh .
The rest of us can enjoy life while Obama does the heavy lifting .
A World Restored ?
BERLIN : Like old battle horses feeling young as the bugle sounds , Cold War strategists are feeling the adrenalin mount as missile defense becomes front page news .
True , the defense against missiles which Bill Clinton ( reluctantly ) and George W. Bush ( enthusiastically ) are proposing - with massive support from America &apos;s Congress - is different from Ronald Reagan &apos;s Star Wars dream of twenty years ago : NMD is supposed to catch only a modest number of warheads , not provide complete protection against enemy missiles .
Nevertheless , the issue rekindles old debates over deterrence , mutual assured destruction and nuclear arms control , and revives the rivalry between the nuclear powers just when nuclear weapons had lost much of their relevance .
Amazingly , debate is heating up even though it is uncertain that NMD will work .
Even if it does work , it will be ten to fifteen years , possibly longer , before NMD is operational .
So tempers are rising over something which , if and when it happens in the distant future , may or may not have much impact .
Normally cautious governments are positioning themselves now as if the future were around the corner .
What explains this odd behavior ?
Not blind faith in technology .
After all , the history of missile defense is a tale of technology constantly disappointing its advocates in and out of government .
No one in his right mind can assume that something never achieved before , namely destroying a small number of warheads in flight , will happen over night .
Of the three tests so far conducted , one failed almost , two entirely , which is why President Clinton left the matter to his successor .
If President Bush , as he has hinted , now favors a different design , it will take even more time to develop the architecture and devise a test program .
Nobody can be sure that it will work either .
Governments are worried now , not because of capabilities , but because of America &apos;s real or imagined intentions .
While Americans claim that NMD is not directed against anyone , that all the US wants is to protect its citizens against states like Iraq or North Korea , almost everyone else thinks differently : Russians fear that America wants to cement its military superiority ( and Russia &apos;s inferiority ) forever ; the Chinese are concerned that NMD signals American readiness to help Taiwan remain independent ; Europeans worry that America &apos;s plans invite tensions with Russia and may separate the US from Europe .
Because political intentions , not technical capabilities matter , NMD creates problems now : it pushes Russia into confrontation , heightens Chinese nervousness , and underpins a European sense of estrangement from the US .
Damage is done from the word go while the end of the road remains obscured .
Inflating this political damage is the fact that , thirty years ago , the US and the then Soviet Union renounced effective defense against strategic nuclear missiles .
Normally , a US defense project in its infancy would not cause the excitement NMD generates .
But the 1972 ABM Treaty prohibits , for the indefinite future , systems to protect either country against such nuclear attack .
As the US proceeds with NMD , it will either have to violate the Treaty or give six months notice to quit , something both signatories are entitled to do if they feel their vital security interests demand it .
In the eyes of many , that would amount to America opting out of the structure of nuclear arms control built in the latter part of the Cold War .
The Bush Administration argues that , because the Cold War is over , the formal disappearance of the ABM Treaty would not mean a loss of nuclear stability .
But stability is as much a matter of political perceptions as of technical calculations .
By limiting strategic missile defense , the old treaty provides a certain predictability of deterrence for all nuclear weapon states .
Its disappearance would affect all other arms control agreements .
Russia threatens to scrap all of them once the US leaves the ABM @-@ Treaty .
While this threat lacks credibility ( it would harm Russian interests most ) it has a certain logic .
The main question NMD poses is not how to prepare for a future world of missile defense but how to dampen today &apos;s political concerns .
Such efforts are getting discretely underway .
Legal experts in Washington suggest that modest preparations for building missile and radar sites do not violate the ABM @-@ Treaty and so do not yet require a US notice to quit .
For now , the Bush Administration will await the outcome of tests before deciding .
Both Moscow and Washington hint at possible deep cuts in their offensive nuclear arsenals .
Skeptical European allies are being mollified by US assurances of close consultation .
The most important of confidence @-@ building measures , a modification of the ABM @-@ Treaty to allow for limited missile defense , is being explored .
Russia &apos;s early &quot; nyet &quot; may not be the last word .
So political turmoil with Russia and Europe might be calmed .
But what about China ?
In contrast to Europe and Russia , China is not party to an alliance ( as is Europe ) or to a network of arms control treaties through which political solutions can evolve ( like Russia ) , factors that contribute to Asian instabilities and Chinese sensitivity .
Here confidence can only be built through the approach taken by the US to China .
Regrettably , there are no indications yet that the problem is recognized in Washington as a serious one .
All this comes as a disappointment to old Cold War strategists .
While brushing up the vocabulary and abbreviations of the age of superpower deterrence , they discover that such a world has gone .
Missile defense is not a threat to US @-@ Russian strategic stability ; its mishandling is a threat to political predictability .
By announcing its determination to go ahead with a distant NMD , the US has created political turbulence which it must address now if major damage is to be avoided .
A Year of Anniversaries and Uncertainties
ALBERTA - As China enters the &quot; Year of the Ox , &quot; there is much to reflect on from the past 12 months and even more to speculate about regarding the coming year .
2008 began with devastating snowstorms that paralyzed most of central and southern China &apos;s transport system , interrupting lives and causing severe material damage .
Then came the riots in Tibet , which caught the government off guard , followed by embarrassing protests over China &apos;s Olympic torch relay in several Western and Asian countries .
Then , as Chinese were wondering why 2008 , a year of supposed good fortune marked by the lucky number eight , had started with so much misfortune , a deadly earthquake struck Sichuan province , killing 80,000 people and leaving millions homeless .
Emerging more united from this tragedy , the country welcomed the world to the long @-@ anticipated Olympics , which were remarkably successful , but were soon superseded by the tainted @-@ dairy @-@ product scandal in which many babies became ill , and some died .
In contrast to last year , when the rush home for the lunar New Year celebration was hampered by freak storms , this year millions of migrant workers have already returned to their rural homes .
Many will be staying there , because the global economic downturn has hit China hard , costing them their jobs .
Littered with a host of extremely sensitive anniversaries , 2009 could prove even more dramatic and unpredictable than 2008 .
Fast approaching is not only the March anniversary of last year &apos;s disturbances in Tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of the Tibetan unrest in 1959 that led to the exile of the Dalai Lama and his supporters .
Since the riots last spring , China &apos;s government has taken many pro @-@ active measures , even adopting a &quot; Serf Liberation Day , &quot; to defend its record in Tibet of the past 50 years , while continuing to talk with the Dalai Lama &apos;s representatives .
But it has also implemented heavy @-@ handed police and military controls .
Then comes the 20th anniversary of the June 4 crackdown on the Tiananmen Square student demonstrations .
Calls to re @-@ evaluate the official response began when President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao came to power seven years ago .
But recently the pressure has intensified , especially with the publication of &quot; Charter 08 , &quot; a manifesto signed by hundreds of Chinese intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , and ordinary citizens , condemning the government &apos;s human rights record and demanding more democratic reform , press freedom , governmental transparency , and societal openness .
Although neither Hu nor Wen were directly involved in the crackdown , they nonetheless must tread carefully .
Doing everything possible to avoid a repeat of the 1989 scenario may well be the Communist Party leadership &apos;s top priority in 2009 .
And , given the economic slowdown , widening income disparity , rising unemployment , and growing popular discontent over corruption , China &apos;s leaders will have their hands full .
Of course , the inspiration for almost every political reform movement in China is the May 4th Movement of 1919 , when Chinese students protested against a weak and corrupt government and called for China to strengthen itself by adopting two key Western ideals : democracy and science .
As the 90th anniversary approaches , China has made great strides in science , but still has a long way to go in terms of democracy .
This year also marks the 50th anniversary of the Great Leap Forward , when 20 @-@ 40 million Chinese died of starvation , as well as the tenth anniversary of the government &apos;s ban on Falun gong , an organization of self @-@ claimed religious and meditation practitioners that has challenged the Communist Party &apos;s legitimacy .
Though largely discredited inside the country , this militant movement still has a following around the world , and further protests may come at any time and in unpredictable forms .
While some of the plethora of anniversaries that China &apos;s leaders must confront are potentially very destabilizing , several have , and will , work in their favor .
For example , the 30th anniversary of China &apos;s reform movement and the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and the United States has been a much @-@ celebrated event this January .
More importantly , October will mark the 60th anniversary of the founding of the Peoples &quot; Republic of China , an occasion that the Party will commemorate in grand style .
After all , the Middle Kingdom has re @-@ emerged as the world &apos;s third @-@ largest economy ( having recently replaced Germany ) , sent astronauts into space , dispatched advanced naval destroyers to the Horn of Africa , and become the largest holder of US foreign debt .
China will want to flex its muscles and proclaim to the world that the Party has delivered the goods to its people , while making the country strong and prosperous .
As the worst recession since the1930 &quot; s continues , both the American and Chinese economies are bound to suffer further setbacks .
There is no guarantee that protectionist and xenophobic sentiment in America will not hit China @-@ US relations , or that the economic downturn will not fuel new unrest in China .
The world should not misjudge the effect of such troubles on China .
Nor should it forget China &apos;s fierce display of nationalism in response to Western protests of the Olympic touch relay , the extraordinary patriotism that swept the country in response to the Sichuan earthquake , and the national pride evinced by the Olympic Games .
But , in 2009 , it would not hurt if China &apos;s leadership also took note of the need to continue assuring the world of its commitment to a &quot; peaceful rise , &quot; and to do so by boldly addressing some of the unresolved issues that this year &apos;s anniversaries will highlight .
A Year of US @-@ China Discord ?
NEW YORK - In 2009 , Forbes magazine named US President Barack Obama and Chinese President Hu Jintao the &quot; world &apos;s most powerful people . &quot;
In 2010 , we will discover that neither has the power to keep US @-@ Chinese relations on track .
That is bad news for those who believe that US @-@ China cooperation is essential for reviving the global economy , meeting the challenge of climate change , containing threats of nuclear proliferation , and managing a host of other problems without borders .
It is also bad news for America and China .
Ten is the number to watch : America &apos;s 10 % unemployment and China &apos;s potential 10 % GDP growth are set to collide like weather fronts generating a storm .
American populism will meet Chinese pride .
And the fevered political climate created by US mid @-@ term elections means that the world &apos;s most important bilateral relationship is headed for real turbulence this year .
America and China now live with a kind of mutually assured economic destruction , and both presidents know it .
The US needs China to finance its mounting debt , and China needs Americans to buy its products .
Indeed , the short , sharp shock that China absorbed from the financial crisis has proven that its economic growth still depends on consumer demand in America , Europe , and Japan - and will for some time to come .
Chinese leaders would like to shift China &apos;s growth model toward greater reliance on domestic consumption , but that is a long @-@ term project .
For the foreseeable future , they will depend on local manufacturers to create the jobs that protect both China &apos;s development goals and the Communist Party &apos;s monopoly on domestic political power .
Fear of shuttered factories and lost wages pushed China &apos;s government last year to launch a massive stimulus program to protect jobs and restore growth .
It worked .
China , with much less exposure than the West to toxic banking assets , is off to the races again as America struggles to its feet .
In a recent Pew Poll , 44 % of US respondents named China as &quot; the world &apos;s leading economic power . &quot;
Just 27 % chose America .
To be sure , an eventual US recovery is inevitable , but job growth usually takes longer to recover .
As long as voters are worried about their wallets , Democrats and Republicans will compete to defend American workers .
As November &apos;s elections approach , many US lawmakers will demand that the country with 10 % unemployment persuade the country with 10 % growth to stop bending trade rules and manipulating the value of its currency .
China
The Obama administration has already moved against Chinese exports of tires and steel pipes , but this year &apos;s confrontation will extend well beyond trade .
When Congress takes up the debate over climate change , for example , and some lawmakers call for a cap @-@ and @-@ trade system , others will demand to know why America should accept binding commitments to limit emissions while the Chinese refuse .
China
The Obama administration also wants China to share more of the burdens of international leadership .
This includes helping the US to apply pressure on countries like Iran , Sudan , and Myanmar that continue to defy the will of the international community - and with which those Chinese state @-@ owned companies have established lucrative commercial relationships that serve the Chinese government &apos;s economic and political interests .
China &apos;s leaders , unwilling to compromise on any issue that might undermine their domestic goals , continue to resist .
A full @-@ scale trade war is unlikely .
Both governments know the stakes are too high for both economies , and Obama and Hu will continue to work hard to try to keep things moving in a constructive direction .
But neither president can guarantee that recrimination and reproach will not take on a life of its own .
For example , if another product @-@ safety issue involving Chinese imports makes headlines in the US , things could move quickly from disappointment to real anger .
Most Americans care little about China &apos;s currency policy or its stance on intellectual property rights .
But if Chinese @-@ made products threaten their health and safety , there are sure to be opportunistic lawmakers ready to fan the flames .
The 2008 US presidential election was the last in which the overwhelming majority of American voters neither knew nor cared about where the candidates stood on China .
Officials in Beijing , increasingly sensitive to US criticism , will prove as ready to trade accusations as goods and services or good ideas .
That is why the &quot; world &apos;s most powerful people &quot; will now have a much harder time working together to meet today &apos;s toughest challenges .
A Yukos Autopsy
Yukos , once Russia &apos;s leading oil company and a favorite of international investors , is in its death throes .
At what many perceived to be a rigged auction , the company &apos;s best assets were sold off to a previously unknown bidder and are now back in the hands of the Russian state .
The shell of what remains continues to challenge the company &apos;s fate , notably in a Houston , Texas courtroom .
But these spasms will not revive the corpse .
What matters now is whether Russia &apos;s economy will share Yukos &apos;s fate .
The damage to Russia &apos;s economic growth prospects from the Yukos affair may yet prove temporary , barring a repeat performance with other companies .
But whether the Yukos affair proves to be an isolated case , as the Kremlin insists , depends on a reading of Russian President Vladimir Putin &apos;s motives .
One possibility is that Putin is not sincere about his aim of doubling Russia &apos;s GDP in a decade .
Recent opinion polls suggest that this is the view of much of Russia &apos;s cynical public .
On this view , the privatizations of the 1990 &quot; s were a scam serving only the powers that be .
But any reversal of those privatizations - such as the effective expropriation of Mikhail Khodorkovsky and his Menatep partners in Yukos - signifies not the dawn of social justice but rather a new group of bosses &quot; expropriating the expropriators , &quot; as Lenin used to say .
A less nihilistic view is that the Yukos affair suggests above all a series of improvisations by Putin rather than a coherent agenda .
This is somewhat reassuring .
Much evidence points to the affair originating not in a systematic nationalization project , but rather in the Kremlin &apos;s perception that Khodorkovsky aimed to use his wealth to privatize the Russian state itself .
Such &quot; state capture &quot; occurred in Russia in the late 1990 &quot; s and to an even greater extent under the Kuchma regime in neighboring Ukraine which , ironically , Putin tried to preserve .
Neutralizing the perceived threat from Khodorkovsky meant depriving him of the means to achieve his ambitions by separating his Menatep Group from Yukos &apos;s future cash flows .
The massive tax claims against Yukos used for this purpose were precisely that - the means rather than the end .
Had the goal been mere recovery of tax arrears , there would have been no need to break up the company : Yukos could have settled even these colossal liabilities on a civilized installment schedule .
To be sure , expropriating Menatep made shares in Yukos - a company that by 2003 attracted more domestic and foreign savings than any other in Russia - virtually worthless .
But this seems like collateral damage from the pursuit of an overriding political objective .
Much now depends on whether the same is true of the other major outcome , which is that Yukos &apos;s principal asset - Yuganskneftegaz - is now in state hands , while its remaining units appear doomed to nationalization .
Is this another incidental by @-@ product of the campaign against Khodorkovsky , or is it part of the core Kremlin agenda ?
Nationalization certainly seems to appeal to the powerful faction comprising Putin &apos;s former KGB colleagues and associates from his native St. Petersburg , one of whom last year became the chairman of Rosneft , the wholly state @-@ owned oil company which acquired Yuganskneftegaz .
But if the influence of these so @-@ called
Even the nationalization of Yukos &apos;s assets may reflect little more than the absence of alternative buyers , given the obvious political obstacle passing those assets on to other domestic private @-@ sector players ( i.e. , oligarchs ) , and the legal and reputational barriers to foreign investors .
So the interpretation that best fits the facts so far is that the political aim of separating Khodorkovsky and Menatep from Yukos led in practice to nationalization , but that this was not the underlying goal .
There is no green light for opportunistic predators in and around the Kremlin who now control Yuganskneftegaz to grab other companies &quot; assets at will .
If so , the damage caused by the Yukos affair should be minimal .
Yet , even on the assumption that Putin has no plans to nationalize key natural resource companies , he clearly desires strong state control over these &quot; commanding heights &quot; of the economy .
That in itself will result in overall GDP growth falling below potential , owing to the inferior productivity and greater corruption in the major companies that the state controls or heavily influences .
In a speech marking the state gas monopoly Gazprom &apos;s tenth anniversary in 2003 , Putin stated his position explicitly , speaking of the company as one of the few strong geopolitical levers left to Russia after the Soviet collapse .
Putin &apos;s geopolitical preoccupations could be accommodated by sensibly preserving state ownership of pipeline infrastructure in the hydrocarbons sector , while allowing private companies to extract , process , and sell Russia &apos;s oil and gas .
Instead , Putin has allowed Gazprom &apos;s management to block proposals from his own government on the long overdue unbundling of the company .
Putin has sought an economic transformation of Russia similar in kind , if not in degree , to China &apos;s boom .
The prize is higher living standards for Russia &apos;s long @-@ suffering people and a recovery in the country &apos;s international standing .
Despite uncertainty about Putin &apos;s intentions , that prize is not out of reach .
Indeed , at this point the only action more harmful than the Yukos affair would be another Yukos affair .
Transatlantic Trade for All
WASHINGTON , DC - The negotiations to create a Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership between the European Union and the United States are being widely welcomed .
British Prime Minister David Cameron has called the TTIP a &quot; once @-@ in @-@ a @-@ generation prize , &quot; citing potential gains of £ 80 billion ( $ 125.5 billion ) each for the EU and the US and £ 85 billion for the rest of the world .
For a world weary of waiting for the World Trade Organization &apos;s interminable Doha trade round to conclude , even a bilateral trade initiative may seem like a boon , especially when , as a recent Financial Times editorial pointed out , &quot; bilateral &quot; covers half of the world &apos;s economy .
But there is a serious downside : The deal could hurt developing @-@ country exporters , unless the EU and the US make a concerted effort to protect these actors &quot; interests .
The feature of the proposed pact that elicits the most excitement - its focus on regulatory barriers like mandatory product standards - should actually incite the greatest concern .
Given low tariffs in the EU and the US - less than 5 % , on average - further preferential reductions will not seriously handicap outsiders .
But , when it comes to standards - such as those governing safety , health , and the environment - the market @-@ access requirements are brutal and binary : either you meet the established standard or you do not sell .
As a result , third @-@ country firms &quot; options will depend on how TTIP standards are established : through harmonization ( adoption of a common standard ) or mutual recognition ( acceptance of goods that meet one another &apos;s established standards ) .
The first option would enable producers everywhere to take advantage of economies of scale .
But , in some cases , the harmonized standard could be more stringent than some countries &quot; original standards .
Even though new standards would apply to suppliers from all exporting countries , compliance costs usually vary , meaning that those less equipped to meet higher standards could suffer .
In the late 1990 &quot; s , when the EU decided to harmonize standards for aflatoxins ( a group of toxic compounds produced by certain molds ) , eight member states - including Italy , the Netherlands , and Spain - raised their national standards substantially , which is likely to have caused African exports of cereals , dried fruits , and nuts to Europe to decline by as much as $ 670 million .
With mutual recognition , the EU and the US would accept each other &apos;s standards or conformity @-@ assessment procedures , allowing firms to adhere to the less stringent requirements in each area .
If the policy were extended to third @-@ country firms , it would have a powerful liberalizing impact .
For example , Malaysian television producers could choose to comply with , say , America &apos;s easier @-@ to @-@ meet safety standards , then sell the same product in both markets , reaping the benefits of economies of scale while lowering compliance costs .
If , however , the TTIP excluded third @-@ country firms from the mutual recognition policy , their competitiveness vis @-@ à @-@ vis European and American companies would diminish substantially .
Indeed , our research shows that when mutual @-@ recognition agreements include restrictive rules of origin , intra @-@ regional trade increases - at the expense of trade with other countries - and that developing countries tend to suffer most .
In fact , excessively constraining rules of origin have proved problematic for some of the EU &apos;s previous recognition agreements , such as those governing professional @-@ services standards .
While a Brazilian orange admitted for sale in Portugal can be sold throughout the EU , a Brazilian engineer or accountant licensed in Portugal must fulfill separate licensing requirements to work elsewhere in the EU , hampering much @-@ needed labor mobility by forcing non @-@ European workers to endure costly and inefficient bureaucratic procedures .
Furthermore , when it comes to tariffs and standards , WTO rules are not created equal .
While they protect countries excluded from bilateral or regional tariff agreements , thereby ensuring that integrated markets do not receive additional advantages , few safeguards exist to shield third countries from the fallout of agreements on mandatory standards .
Even in the absence of international rules , the EU and the US could take two actions to ensure that the TTIP does not have adverse consequences for developing economies . First , they could allow all countries to reap the benefits of a bilateral mutual @-@ recognition deal by agreeing not to impose restrictive rules of origin .
Second , where they do consider harmonization , they could favor the less stringent of the original standards , unless there is credible evidence that it would not support the relevant regulatory objective .
This is akin to a WTO test for departures from established international standards .
If the EU and the US made these two commitments , the rest of the world could follow the TTIP negotiations with hope , rather than trepidation .
Abandoning Asia &apos;s Poor
NEW YORK &amp; # 45 ; &amp; # 45 ; More than half of Asia &apos;s population &amp; # 45 ; &amp; # 45 ; 1.8 billion people &amp; # 45 ; &amp; # 45 ; live on less than $ 2 a day ; more than 600 million of them try to survive on less than $ 1 a day .
With food prices now soaring , most of Asia &apos;s &quot; working poor , &quot; who are already struggling on degraded lands , in sweatshops , on streets and at homes , risk further destitution .
Yet the Asian Development Bank - an institution whose mission is to reduce poverty - last month approved a new corporate strategy ( ADB Long Term Strategic Framework 2008 @-@ 2020 ) that is ominously silent on the importance of employment and social protection for the poor .
A handful of influential ADB bureaucrats with large salaries , secured pensions , comprehensive health insurance , subsidized housing , and education for their children , have apparently decided that financing subsidized housing , health , nutrition , and child protection programs is not a priority .
Nor do they consider land reform , employment services , or pensions for all Asians a priority .
Instead , these officials have decided to refocus ADB operations on three areas : inclusive economic growth , environmentally sustainable growth , and regional integration , with a heavy emphasis on private @-@ sector development .
The ADB is abandoning crucial public support for social development .
The new strategy is a reversal of the policies of the late 1990 &quot; s , when the ADB changed its objective from &quot; economic growth &quot; to &quot; poverty reduction . &quot;
The ADB &apos;s earlier policies were based on broad @-@ based growth , good governance , and social development .
Ten years later , only an empty corporate motto of &quot; an Asia and Pacific region free of poverty &quot; is left .
Social protection , housing , employment , and labor are not on the ADB &apos;s new agenda .
Health and agriculture will be considered only on a highly selective basis .
Only education remains as a future investment sector , given its impact on productivity , but the rest of the much @-@ needed social sector interventions have been abandoned in favor of investment in infrastructure , the environment , regional integration , and finance .
No lesson was learned from the Asian financial crisis , which underscored the importance of social protection .
Pensions are mentioned only under financial @-@ sector development : the ADB is to promote private @-@ led insurance , despite evidence from the United Nations , International Labor Organization , World Bank and NGOs showing that private pensions do not reach the poor .
If the ADB were serious about poverty reduction , it would put a significant share of its investments in social development , particularly on non @-@ contributory universal social security schemes that can reduce poverty by 35 % to 50 % .
Why is the ADB constricting its agenda ?
Why does it want to deny governments &quot; access to much @-@ needed funds for social development ?
The ADB argues that other agencies are responsible for social development .
But that argument is unjustified : while institutions such as the UN and NGOs may work on social development , they are under @-@ funded compared to the ADB .
Besides , plenty of other public and private institutions undertake the infrastructure and finance projects that the ADB now wants to focus on .
So , what is the ADB &apos;s added value , and whom does it serve ?
Certainly the ADB &apos;s new strategy will not serve the majority of Asians , 60 % of whom still live in poor rural areas .
Indeed , Asia and the Pacific account for three @-@ quarters of the world &apos;s stunted , underweight , and malnourished children .
Maternal mortality rates remain dismal in several countries .
As food prices rise , so is hunger and poverty .
External and internal pressure at the ADB &apos;s Annual Meeting this May forced the bank to respond to the current food crisis through temporary safety @-@ net food security programs .
It also offered medium @-@ term measures such as infrastructure and rural finance .
All of these are good , but they are insufficient .
Other measures are needed to reduce poverty in rural areas , such as land reform and rights , agricultural extension services , expanding access to health and non @-@ contributory social pensions , just to mention some .
ADB &apos;s major goal , however , seems to be to scale up private @-@ sector support from 15 % to 50 % of total bank operations .
Several countries have expressed reservations about this .
It will include direct financing , credit enhancements , and guarantees - a subsidy to a sector known for its risky non @-@ performing operations at the ADB - as well as business @-@ friendly regulations and removal of market &quot; barriers , &quot; which include social and labor rights .
Such rights can be tolerated only as minimum social safeguards , which the ADB is trying to neuter through another ongoing review .
Unless the ADB &apos;s member governments reverse its current policies , they , too , will be blamed for ignoring the urgent needs of the poor .
Poverty reduction requires both economic and social policies that reach people .
Growth on its own is not sufficient to guarantee poverty reduction in Asia and the Pacific .
Abba Eban : The Voice of Israel
For almost two generations , Abba Eban was Israel &apos;s voice - its messenger to the high and mighty among the nations as well as to the Jewish people all over the world .
Since he first appeared at the side of Dr. Chaim Weizmann in the late 1940 &apos;s during the struggle for Jewish statehood and sovereignty , few people could articulate the Zionist and later the Israeli case with comparable eloquence and conviction .
With his Churchillian prose and almost Shakespearean cadences , his mellifluous phrases and sonorous voice carried for decades a message of hope from a people that could have lost all hope and trust in humanity after the horrors of World War II .
As Ambassador to the United States and the UN , and later as Foreign Minister , he represented an Israel with which the world &apos;s liberal imagination could identify .
Larger and more powerful nations were envious of so a powerful spokesman , and his speeches became textbook models for statesmen and diplomats in distant lands .
His books - which he found time to write despite the hectic demands of diplomacy - were a unique combination of enormous erudition and crystalline clarity .
His scholarly training and rhetorical gifts supplemented each other in a rare fashion .
Rarely has a small country been represented by a statesman of such world stature : only Thomas Masaryk and Jan Smuts come to mind to compare with him .
He was a true patriot , in the old @-@ fashioned sense of the word : proud of his people , but never ethno @-@ centric ; a man of the world , but deeply embedded in Jewish cultural heritage ; focused on the plights and tribulations of the Jewish people , but never losing the universal horizon of mankind .
In short , he was a modern Jew in the best sense of the word .
It was said of Prime Minister Levi Eshkol that he spoke seven languages , all of them in Yiddish .
Of Eban it could be said that he spoke ten languages , and all of them with an Oxford / Cambridge accent .
Yet what appealed to the outside world was not always an asset in the rough and tumble of Israeli politics .
Perhaps Eban was too urbane , too much of a scholar and gentleman to be able to make it - in Disraeli &apos;s phrase - to the top of the greasy pole .
Together with Golda Meir and Moshe Dayan he had to leave government in 1974 in the wake of the Yom Kippur War .
He could hardly have been held responsible for the hubris which led to the avalanche of 1973 , yet it nonetheless brought him down as well .
He never found his way back , and when confronted with the New Politics of primaries and populism , he became dispirited when he could not cope with this new style .
In the international arena , Eban &apos;s pen was his sword , and the spoken word his lance .
He was less adept in political infighting in Israel .
He could be a fierce turf fighter , yet it is fair to say that he could have fought harder for his moderate and dovish views in the post @-@ 1967 government in which he served .
It is far from clear if he would have prevailed , given his lack of an independent political base , but his international prestige and standing might have given him a chance if he would have chosen to throw the gauntlet .
He never did .
Eban &apos;s silence in the last years was not only a product of his disenchantment with Israeli politics or his failing health .
At a time when public debate in Israel is torn between pseudo @-@ religious nationalist fanatics and anti @-@ Zionists masquerading as post @-@ modernists , the moral certitudes of Eban , for all their urbanity , may sound shallow .
But nation @-@ building requires moral stamina , and Eban provided it to his people and the world in abundance .
Without having spoken to Eban in the last few years , I have no doubt that he would be extremely unhappy about the turn of events after the failure of Camp David and Taba in 2000 @-@ 01 , and the present course of Israeli policies would fill him with foreboding .
Yet in all probability he would have been even more deeply disappointed in the inability of the Palestinians to come to terms with the existence of the Jewish state .
As an Arabist by training , immersed in Arab and Muslim culture , he always hoped that the glorious Arab past could be rejuvenated , that an Arab and Muslim culture of tolerance could triumph over fanaticism and extremism .
This was the bedrock of his hope for reconciliation between Jew and Arab .
That this Arab renaissance - to use the phrase of the great Palestinian scholar George Antonius - did not take place may have been Eban &apos;s greatest disappointment .
Despite the high @-@ born image Eban projected , he was an extremely vulnerable person : what some occasionally discerned as traits of vanity may have had their origins in his humble origins .
While appearing to own the Queen &apos;s English , Eban was not to the manor born : he came from the extremely modest fringes of Anglo @-@ Jewry .
He was , in the true sense of the word , a self @-@ made man , whose pluck , ambition , drive and inner belief in his destiny carried him to the pinnacle of his achievements .
His was the aristocracy of the spirit .
In this Abba Eban was a true representative of the people he so gloriously represented .
The Missing Arrow of Abenomics
TOKYO - In his drive to kick @-@ start the Japanese economy , Prime Minister Shinzo Abe , shortly after taking office in 2012 , introduced a large fiscal stimulus and put in place a bold program of monetary easing .
Since then , Japanese policymakers have been working to launch what Abe calls the third &quot; arrow &quot; of his agenda : arduous reforms of key industries and the demolition of structural barriers to growth .
But the focus on public policy has left a &quot; fourth arrow &quot; - the private sector - untouched and seemingly ignored .
This is unfortunate , because the government cannot fix Japan &apos;s ills on its own .
Annual productivity growth has been stubbornly sluggish , rarely rising above 2 % for much of the past two decades , reflecting both missed opportunities and declining cost competitiveness .
Japan &apos;s productivity slump permeates the entire economy ; labor and capital productivity gains have nearly stalled in almost every sector - even in Japan &apos;s signature advanced manufacturing industries .
Labor productivity in the transport @-@ equipment sector , for example , is barely half that of Germany .
This trend puts annual GDP growth on course to average only 1.3 % through 2025 , implying a third consecutive decade of stagnation .
Such an outcome would coincide with - and exacerbate the effects of - an adverse demographic shift that will constrain fiscal revenues and drive up costs for universal health care and pension benefits .
Japan &apos;s ability to alter its trajectory depends on individual companies making decisions to invest , change workplace policies , deploy new technologies , and test untried business models .
Abe &apos;s structural reforms will take time and political will to enact , but Japanese companies cannot afford to sit still .
They can and must act , without waiting for the government to change its policies .
In many cases , the economy &apos;s bottlenecks are not regulatory in nature , but stem from entrenched ways of doing business .
New research by the McKinsey Global Institute examines Japan &apos;s advanced manufacturing , retail , financial services , and health @-@ care industries in detail - and finds substantial untapped productivity potential in every area .
For starters , Japanese firms must become more globally integrated .
Exporting to the fastest @-@ growing overseas markets is one obvious route to overcoming sluggish demand growth at home .
But , rather than just selling products abroad , Japanese enterprises need to expand operations beyond their borders and cast a wider net for international talent .
Japanese companies have formidable R &amp; amp ; D operations , but most will need to reconfigure them to obtain better returns and impact .
The process must start with an understanding of what the customer wants and a determination to deliver solutions accordingly .
Closed and tightly managed R &amp; amp ; D operations must be transformed into more fluid , open processes involving collaboration with customers and suppliers .
Japanese companies will also need to improve their capabilities in areas such as marketing , pricing , and talent development .
While there are some pockets of excellence , most Japanese firms are severely lacking in these areas .
To compete in global markets , they will need to achieve the same consistency in these areas that they have in their traditional areas of strength .
Many Japanese companies have yet to digitize paper @-@ based processes and replace outdated information @-@ technology systems .
Others would benefit from moving beyond basic digitization to next @-@ generation technologies , such as big @-@ data analytics .
Companies can also head off looming labor shortages with intelligent software systems and robotics .
Manufacturers can augment or replace their assembly lines with technologies such as the Internet of Things and 3D printing .
More broadly , Japanese companies have to organize for performance and discipline .
As policy changes unleash market forces , businesses will face greater competition .
Some may need to reorganize or exit unprofitable markets ; others may have to undertake mergers and acquisitions to achieve economies of scale .
Finally , shareholders and senior executives should tie performance goals to incentives .
Some of Japan &apos;s corporate giants have already begun shifting from traditional seniority @-@ based advancement toward merit @-@ based pay structures .
Others should follow their lead .
Promoting younger and more diverse talent can create agile organizations with fresh ideas .
If Japan &apos;s private sector rises to the challenge , it can move the economy onto a path of faster growth .
Innovations in one company would cascade across its entire industry by forcing competitors to raise their game .
In the 1950s and 1960s , for example , Toyota introduced more efficient production processes that were eventually adopted by the entire automobile industry .
Instead of settling for a future of 1.3 % annual GDP growth , Japan could attain roughly 3 % annual growth through 2025 .
Doing so would require the growth rate of labor productivity to more than double , but this is an attainable goal .
More than half of this growth increment can be met by adopting best practices that companies around the world already use , while technology can close much of the remaining gap .
Japanese business leaders need to combine big thinking with a focused attention to detail .
They will need to create innovative products , penetrate new markets , and make bold investments in equipment , technology , and talent , while simultaneously scrutinizing every aspect of their operations for inefficiency and waste .
Traditional ways of doing business may have to be abandoned .
But there is ample scope to make progress and spur faster economic growth .
Immense trade flows , the rise of billions of new consumers in the emerging world , and technology breakthroughs are rapidly transforming the global economy .
Japan can shift its current trajectory by turning this wave of disruption into opportunity .
Absent @-@ Minded Killers
As a species , human beings have a major self @-@ control problem .
We humans are now so aggressively fishing , hunting , logging , and growing crops in all parts of the world that we are literally chasing other species off the planet .
Our intense desire to take all that we can from nature leaves precious little for other forms of life .
In 1992 , when the world &apos;s governments first promised to address man @-@ made global warming , they also vowed to head off the human @-@ induced extinction of other species .
The Convention on Biological Diversity , agreed at the Rio Earth Summit , established that &quot; biological diversity is a common concern of humanity . &quot; The signatories agreed to conserve biological diversity , by saving species and their habitats , and to use biological resources ( e.g. , forests ) in a sustainable manner .
In 2002 , the treaty &apos;s signatories went further , committing to &quot; a significant reduction in the current rate of biodiversity loss &quot; by 2010 .
Unfortunately , like so many other international agreements , the Convention on Biological Diversity remains essentially unknown , un @-@ championed , and unfulfilled .
That neglect is a human tragedy .
For a very low cash outlay - and perhaps none at all on balance - we could conserve nature and thus protect the basis of our own lives and livelihoods .
We kill other species not because we must , but because we are too negligent to do otherwise .
Consider a couple of notorious examples .
Some rich countries , such as Spain , Portugal , Australia , and New Zealand , have fishing fleets that engage in so @-@ called &quot; bottom trawling . &quot;
Bottom trawlers drag heavy nets over the ocean bottom , destroying magnificent , unexplored , and endangered marine species in the process .
Complex and unique ecologies , most notably underground volcanoes known as seamounts , are ripped to shreds , because bottom trawling is the &quot; low cost &quot; way to catch a few deep sea fish species .
One of these species , orange roughy , has been caught commercially for only around a quarter @-@ century , but already is being fished to the point of collapse .
Likewise , in many parts of the world , tropical rainforest is being cleared for pasture land and food crops .
The result is massive loss of habitat and destruction of species , yielding a tiny economic benefit at a huge social cost .
After cutting down a swath of rainforest , soils are often quickly leached of their nutrients so that they cannot sustain crops or nutritious grasses for livestock .
As a result , the new pasture land or farmland is soon abandoned , with no prospect for regeneration of the original forest and its unique ecosystems .
Because these activities &quot; costs are so high and their benefits so low , stopping them would be easy .
Bottom trawling should simply be outlawed ; it would be simple and inexpensive to compensate the fishing industry during a transition to other activities .
Forest clearing , on the other hand , is probably best stopped by economic incentives , perhaps combined with regulatory limits .
Simply restricting the practice of land clearing probably would not work , since farm families and communities would face a strong temptation to evade legal limits .
On the other hand , financial incentives would probably succeed , because cutting down forest to create pastureland is not profitable enough to induce farmers to forego payments for protecting the land .
Many rainforest countries have united in recent years to suggest the establishment of a rainforest conservation fund by the rich countries , to pay impoverished small farmers a small amount of money to preserve the forest .
A well @-@ designed fund would slow or stop deforestation , preserve biodiversity , and reduce emissions of carbon dioxide the burning of cleared forests .
At the same time , small farmers would receive a steady flow of income , which they could use for micro @-@ investments to improve their household &apos;s wealth , education , and health .
Aside from banning bottom trawling and establishing a global fund for avoided deforestation , we should designate a global network of protected marine areas , in which fishing , boating , polluting , dredging , drilling , and other damaging activities would be prohibited .
Such areas not only permit the regeneration of species , but also provide ecological benefits that spill over to neighboring unprotected areas .
We also need a regular scientific process to present the world with the evidence on species abundance and extinction , just as we now have such a process for climate change .
Politicians don &apos;t listen very well to individual scientists , but they are forced to listen when hundreds of scientists speak with a united voice .
Finally , the world should negotiate a new framework no later than 2010 to slow human @-@ induced climate change .
There can be little doubt that climate change poses one of the greatest risks to species &quot; viability .
As the planet warms , and rain and storm patterns change dramatically , many species will find themselves in climate zones that no longer support their survival .
Some can migrate , but others ( such as polar bears ) are likely to be driven to extinction unless we take decisive action to head off climate change .
These measures are achievable by 2010 .
They are affordable , and in each case would ultimately deliver large net benefits .
Most importantly , they would allow us to follow through on a global promise .
It is too painful to believe that humanity would destroy millions of other species - and jeopardize our own future - in a fit of absent @-@ mindedness .
Polluters Must Pay
NEW YORK - When BP and its drilling partners caused the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010 , the United States government demanded that BP finance the cleanup , compensate those who suffered damages , and pay criminal penalties for the violations that led to the disaster .
BP has already committed more than $ 20 billion in remediation and penalties .
Based on a settlement last week , BP will now pay the largest criminal penalty in US history - $ 4.5 billion .
The same standards for environmental cleanup need to be applied to global companies operating in poorer countries , where their power has typically been so great relative to that of governments that many act with impunity , wreaking havoc on the environment with little or no accountability .
As we enter a new era of sustainable development , impunity must turn to responsibility .
Polluters must pay , whether in rich or poor countries .
Major companies need to accept responsibility for their actions .
Nigeria has been Exhibit A of corporate environmental impunity .
For decades , major oil companies , including Shell , ExxonMobil , and Chevron , have been producing oil in the Niger Delta , an ecologically fragile environment of freshwater swamp forests , mangroves , lowland rainforests , and coastal barrier islands .
This rich habitat supports remarkable biodiversity - or did before the oil companies got there - &amp; # 160 ; and more than 30 million local inhabitants , who depend on the local ecosystems for their health and livelihoods .
Twenty years ago , the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources classified the Niger Delta as a region of high biodiversity of marine and coastal flora and fauna - tree species , fish , birds , and mammals , among other forms of life - and therefore rated it as a very high priority for conservation .
Yet it also noted that the region &apos;s biodiversity was under massive threat , with little or no protection .
The global companies operating in the delta have spilled oil and flared natural gas for decades , without regard for the natural environment and the communities impoverished and poisoned by their actions .
One estimate puts the cumulative spills over the past 50 years at approximately 10 million barrels - twice the size of the BP spill .
The data are uncertain : there have been many thousands of spills during this period - often poorly documented and their magnitude hidden or simply unmeasured by either the companies or the government .
Indeed , just as BP was being hit with new criminal penalties , ExxonMobil announced yet another pipeline leak in the Niger Delta .
The environmental destruction of the delta is part of a larger saga : corrupt companies operating hand in hand with corrupt government officials .
The companies routinely bribe officials to gain oil leases , lie about output , evade taxes , and dodge responsibility for the environmental damage that they cause .
Nigerian officials have become fabulously wealthy , owing to decades of payoffs by international companies that have plundered the delta &apos;s natural wealth .
Shell , the largest foreign operator in the Niger Delta , has been criticized repeatedly for its egregious practices and its unwillingness to be held to account .
Meanwhile , the local population has remained impoverished and beset by diseases caused by unsafe air , poisoned drinking water , and pollution in the food chain .
Local lawlessness has led to gang warfare and persistent illegal tapping into the pipelines to steal oil , leading to further massive oil spills and frequent explosions that kill dozens , including innocent bystanders .
In the colonial era , it was the official purpose of imperial power to extract wealth from the administered territories .
In the post @-@ colonial period , the methods are better disguised .
When oil companies misbehave in Nigeria or elsewhere , they are protected by the power of their home countries .
Don &apos;t mess with the companies , they are told by the United States and Europe .
Indeed , one of the largest bribes ( a reputed $ 180 million ) paid in recent times in Nigeria was by Halliburton , a company tightly intertwined with US political power .
( Dick Cheney went from being Halliburton &apos;s CEO to the US vice presidency . )
Last year , the United Nations Environment Program ( UNEP ) issued a remarkable report on Ogoniland , a major ethnic homeland in the Niger Delta that has been at the epicenter of conflict between local communities and international oil .
The report was as scathing as it was scientifically clear .
Despite many past promises of a cleanup , Ogoniland remains in environmental agony , impoverished and sickened by the oil industry .
UNEP also offered clear and detailed recommendations , including emergency measures to ensure safe drinking water ; cleanup activities targeting the mangroves and soils ; public @-@ health studies to identify and counteract the consequences of pollution ; and a new regulatory framework .
The world &apos;s governments have recently agreed to move to a new framework for sustainable development , declaring their intention to adopt Sustainable Development Goals at the Rio + 20 Summit in June .
The SDGs offer a critical opportunity for the world to set clear , compelling standards for government and corporate behavior .
Many major companies , including in the oil industry , have expressed their readiness to support sustainable development goals .
Cleaning up the Niger Delta would provide the strongest possible example of a new age of accountability .
Shell , Chevron , ExxonMobil , and other major oil companies should step forward and help to fund the necessary cleanup , ushering in a new era of responsibility .
The Nigerian government &apos;s own accountability is on the line as well .
It is heartening that several Nigerian senators have recently been in the forefront of efforts to strengthen the rule of law in the oil sector .
The cleanup of the Niger Delta provides an ideal opportunity for Nigeria , the oil industry , and the international community to show convincingly that a new age has dawned .
From now on , sustainable development must not be a mere slogan , but rather an operational approach to global governance and well @-@ being on a strained and crowded planet .
Accounting for Gaza
New York - This week the United Nations Human Rights Council will debate the report of the fact @-@ finding mission led by Judge Richard Goldstone on human rights violations in the Gaza conflict .
Let us hope it is a full and fair examination based on the report &apos;s findings and recommendations .
Goldstone and his team concluded that both Israel and Hamas , the Palestinian group controlling Gaza , committed war crimes and possibly crimes against humanity during the period of the conflict which the investigation addressed . The report calls for credible investigations of alleged rights violations and recommends that the UN Security Council require both sides to report back within six months on the results , including any prosecutions they will carry out in connection with the violations identified .
Failure to do so , in the view of Goldstone &apos;s commission , should result in the Security Council referring the matter to the prosecutor for the International Criminal Court in The Hague .
Unfortunately , rather than debating Goldstone &apos;s detailed findings and the merits of his recommendations on ways to move forward , there are indications that governments may focus instead on the process leading up to the investigation and seek to limit full discussion of the report .
As someone involved in that process , I feel it is important to put my views on record , as comments I made previously are now being used as part of the effort to undermine Judge Goldstone and his important work .
I refused to accept the invitation from the president of the Human Rights Council at the time , Ambassador Martin Uhomoibhi of Nigeria , to lead the investigation following the Human Rights Council &apos;s January 12 , 2009 resolution . As a former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights , I felt strongly that the Council &apos;s resolution was one @-@ sided and did not permit a balanced approach to determining the situation on the ground .
It referred only to &quot; the grave violations of human rights in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , particularly due to the recent Israeli military attacks , &quot; and called for a mission to investigate &quot; all violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law by the occupying power , Israel , against the Palestinian people . &quot;
I was also aware that the UN Human Rights Council had made repeated condemnations of Israel over the past two years but had focused little attention on large @-@ scale violations of human rights in other countries .
This pattern of action and inaction by the Council has given greater credence to those who believe the UN &apos;s highest human rights body is inherently anti @-@ Israel .
I decided I could not undertake the mission for these reasons .
I am aware that Judge Goldstone , a dedicated and unimpeachable human rights lawyer and advocate , shared similar concerns when he was initially approached .
But he was able to work with the Council &apos;s president to secure an agreement he felt confident would permit the mandate to be interpreted in such a way as to allow his team to address the actions taken by
Experts can debate whether this was in conformity with UN rules and procedures .
I have no doubt that those involved were seeking a way forward that would allow for a full investigation and help overcome the political divisiveness currently undermining the Human Rights Council within the UN system .
The question now is whether governments will give Judge Goldstone &apos;s findings the serious attention they deserve , or instead fall back into an overtly political posture .
As Goldstone &apos;s report makes clear :
Both the Palestinians and the Israelis are legitimately angered at the lives that they are forced to lead : For the Palestinians , the anger about individual events - the civilian casualties , injuries and destruction in Gaza following from military attacks , the blockade , the continued construction of the Wall outside of the 1967 borders - feed into an underlying anger about the continuing Israeli occupation , its daily humiliations and their as @-@ yet @-@ unfulfilled right to self @-@ determination . For the Israelis , the public statements of Palestinian armed groups celebrating rocket and mortar attacks on civilians strengthen a deep @-@ rooted concern that negotiation will yield little and that their nation remains under existential threat from which only it can protect its people .
In this way , both the Israelis and the Palestinians share a secret fear - for some , a belief - that each has no intention of accepting the other &apos;s right to a country of their own .
This anger and fear are unfortunately ably represented by many politicians .
( Para . 1705 )
For the sake of human rights and peace in the region , my hope is that the international community will bear witness to these circumstances , consider Judge Goldstone &apos;s report in its entirety and press for accountability for the most serious crimes .
Accounting Tricks Around the Globe
Accounting chicanery will be high on the agenda of the bankers who will meet at the annual IMF / World Bank gathering in Washington , D.C. The IMF should do more than offer the private sector advice about how to fix its accounting problems ; governmental accounting tricks and the IMF &apos;s own wheezes should also be addressed , says Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz .
The Arthur Anderson and Enron scandals in America have focused attention on the problems of accounting in private businesses .
But the scale of this corruption should not blind us to the problem of public sector accounting , where many deceitful things are also being done .
Accounting rules are designed to provide standardized frameworks within which the financial position of a firm , or government , can be assessed .
Bad accounting frameworks always lead to bad information , and bad information leads to bad decisions , with serious long term consequences .
This is true in the public as well as the private sector .
America &apos;s business scandals showed how accounting rules can be bent and abused to provide a misleading picture of what is really happening in a company .
The Bush Administration , not to be left behind , has shown how public accounting rules can be bent so as to provide a misleading picture of what is really happening in a national economy .
Indeed , last year saw what may be the largest accounting fraud ever conducted , as a mega @-@ surplus of more than $ 3trillion for the years 2002 to 2011 was transformed into a $ 2 trillion deficit .
Investors in Enron waited years before discovering that something was amiss .
Though sudden and vast , the change in America &apos;s fiscal stance already provides a clear inkling that something was amiss .
It will be years before the full magnitude of President Bush &apos;s deception is apparent .
Meanwhile , the Bush Administration will blame the sinking economy , bad luck , and unintentional miscalculations for the vanished surplus .
But America is not alone in allowing for official accounting shenanigans .
In Latin America and elsewhere in the developing world , the IMF imposes accounting frameworks that not only make little sense , but result in excessive austerity .
In some of the poorest countries in the world - ie , those most dependent on aid - the IMF has argued that foreign aid should not be listed as revenue in a government &apos;s budget calculations .
But what else is aid if it is not revenue ?
The IMF &apos;s argument seems to be this : a country cannot rely on foreign aid because aid is too unstable .
The truth , of course , is that aid is more stable than tax revenues in poor countries .
By the IMF &apos;s logic , neither aid nor tax revenues should be included in budgets .
If that is the case , every country in the world is in deep trouble .
The absurdity here is the idea that all foreign aid should be added to reserves .
But donor countries want to see the money they give to finance schools or health clinics spent on schools and health clinics ; they don &apos;t want to see it added to a nation &apos;s reserves .
Governments in developing countries have the
Other IMF accounting practices , including how the capital expenditures of government @-@ owned enterprises are treated , are also causing outrage .
If a state owned enterprise
But by
A second IMF accounting distortion involves stabilization funds .
These are national funds that , in boom years , receive revenues from sales of natural resources to be set aside against a rainy day .
This makes sense .
But IMF accounting inhibits the use of these funds to help stabilize an economy through counter @-@ cyclical fiscal spending .
According to Mexican and Chilean officials I have discussed the matter with , spending from a stabilization fund is reportedly treated as if the country is borrowing , thus adding to its deficit .
It is , of course , in times of economic downturn that countries worry most about their credit rating , so the IMF stance is particularly unhelpful .
IMF accounting frameworks , rather than providing useful signals to the market , provide distorted information that exacerbates a troubled country &apos;s problems .
Good decisions require
Achieving a &quot; Europe of Results &quot;
BRUSSELS - The tsunami that has swept across financial markets is a global catastrophe .
If handled correctly , however , the crisis may yet raise the esteem of the European Union and its institutions .
The EU &apos;s legitimacy problem has two different aspects : apathy , leading to a low turnout in the European parliamentary elections , and outright euro @-@ skepticism .
The voter @-@ turnout problem partly reflects frustration about the present state of the EU , and also people &apos;s impression that they can exert little influence by voting one way or the other .
Euro @-@ skepticism , on the other hand , and the looming threat of anti @-@ European populism , is directly linked to the idea that the EU is not merely incapable of offering a solution to the crisis , but in fact is part of the problem .
So , although the EU represents our best hope of ensuring that Europe is internationally competitive in today &apos;s increasingly difficult environment , it is actually being blamed for globalization .
Many people confuse these two aspects of the EU &apos;s legitimacy problem , and believe that somehow turnout in European elections can be increased by pointing out to people how good and important the EU is .
But in most cases , this is not possible .
At first sight , the easiest answer to the problem of low voter turnout is to give more power to the European Parliament .
But if this was the solution , then we would not have had steadily declining turnouts since the high point of 63 % , at the first elections to the European Parliament in 1979 .
After all , since then the EP &apos;s influence and powers of joint decision @-@ making have grown constantly .
The trouble is that , EP elections must be &quot; about &quot; something if voters are to be interested , which means they must involve a real choice .
And a real choice requires Europe @-@ wide election campaigns by all parties .
This would also involve making the choice of the European Commission &apos;s president dependent on the outcome of the EP elections .
But , in fact , both of these conditions have already been met ; in 2004 , Portuguese Prime Minister José Manuel Durão Barroso was appointed President of the Commission because he came from the political organization with the strongest election result , the European People &apos;s Party .
And this year &apos;s elections saw a more intensive presence of party organizations at European level than ever before .
Instead , I believe that the most important way to reawaken voters &quot; interest in European elections will be to open up the election of the Commission &apos;s President to them , and create a genuinely Europe @-@ wide political debate during the next election campaign .
The Euro @-@ skepticism problem can be tackled only if the Union itself starts to perform better , and is seen to be doing so .
That is why in the aftermath of the failed referenda four years ago in France and the Netherlands on the Constitutional treaty , the Commission tried to emphasize the idea of a &quot; Europe of Results &quot; that would seek to convince citizens of its worth through concrete achievements .
Given the gravity of the economic crisis , the time has come for the EU to demonstrate its strengths whenever possible .
The aim must be not only to win back the hearts of Europeans who have become skeptical , but also to convince them that the Union is indispensable to meeting the challenges Europeans face .
Europe &apos;s citizens understand that the relatively small nation @-@ states that make up the EU are no longer able to face these enormous challenges on their own .
In Ireland , last autumn &apos;s financial crisis provoked a turnaround in public opinion about the EU , and even in Iceland , although it lies on the periphery of our continent , membership of the EU and the euro have become a priority .
European countries have become so interconnected that isolated national measures on issues like financial @-@ market regulation are hopeless .
A changing world in which new powers like China and India play an increasingly important role will not wait for Europe to make up its mind .
The EU must instead show leadership through its efforts to solve the world &apos;s current problems .
As for the European People &apos;s Party , for us the economy is not an end in itself but should serve the people .
The economic crisis was caused by shortsightedness and a lack of control in the global financial system .
Now we must redefine the role of regulators in financial markets and in the wider economy , for we cannot let the financial sector walk off with the profits and leave taxpayers bearing the losses .
That doesn &apos;t mean that we are advocating a move to socialism ; we want better and smarter regulation , not regulation for its own sake .
We see five keys to recovery :
A &quot; Europe of Results &quot; is achievable .
It can strengthen the EU &apos;s legitimacy , though , only if policy recommendations such as these , and the successes that result from implementing them , are communicated clearly and effectively to the general public .
Achieving Growth in a Rebalanced World
MILAN - Although the financial crisis is winding down , the prospects for growth in the global economy are unlikely to pick up .
This is , in part , inevitable .
But it is also the result of poor coordination between governments as the world economy rebalances .
Prior to the crisis , American consumers , on average , either saved nothing or accumulated debt .
That has now changed .
With household wealth seriously damaged by the housing crash and other asset @-@ price declines , pensions and retirement provisions are in disarray .
Because asset prices will not reach pre @-@ crisis levels anytime soon ( that is , without inflating another bubble and risking renewed instability ) , household saving in the United States has risen to about 5 % of disposable income , and probably will rise further .
This withdrawal of the US consumer is part ( perhaps half ) of the process of rebalancing the global economy .
Restoring America &apos;s savings @-@ investment balance implies a reduction in global aggregate demand of around $ 800 billion .
To be sure , fiscal deficits and emergency measures in advanced economies and some major developing countries have cushioned the sharp decline , substituting in part for missing consumers .
But this substitution cannot continue indefinitely .
In advanced countries , governments will eventually be forced to reduce spending , and central banks will withdraw from emergency credit provisions and guarantees .
As a result , many believe that a &quot; new normal &quot; of slower advanced @-@ country growth is upon us .
Despite a recovery in asset prices in many countries and the deceleration of negative growth , unemployment is high and rising .
Risk spreads have declined from their mid @-@ crisis highs , but credit in many sectors remains tight or barely available , while the financial sector is set to become more conservative - and is likely to be re @-@ regulated with higher capital , reserve , and margin requirements .
And this is just the baseline scenario .
Downside risks include fiscal destabilization resulting from a failure to rein in deficits , inflation and withdrawal of central bank autonomy , and loss of confidence in the dollar , which continues to be the reserve currency for the global economy .
Little wonder , then , that many knowledgeable analysts reasonably expect post @-@ crisis growth in advanced countries to be lower , perhaps by 0.5 to 1 % .
A 1 % slowdown in advanced @-@ country growth translates into roughly $ 350 billion of missing aggregate demand every year , in addition to the shortfall because of rebalancing in the US .
If the slowdown in advanced countries persists , pre @-@ crisis growth levels will not be achievable in the developing world either , owing to insufficient demand to absorb the implied increase in output .
Of course , individual developing countries may be spared .
But it is an unfortunate mathematical fact that not everyone can gain market share .
If the advanced @-@ country scenario is right , many developing countries will lose out and experience sharply diminished growth .
Prior to the crisis , many suspected that the mix of aggregate demand that was supporting high growth was unsustainable , though the problem perhaps seemed too hypothetical to compel collective action .
Not anymore .
But the collective action problem is no less daunting , and it requires urgent attention if the world &apos;s growth aspirations are to be achieved .
The problem is all the more pressing because countries can achieve gains in market share not only through higher private @-@ sector competitiveness , but also by means of protectionist measures .
And , as we have seen in many countries &quot; efforts to ameliorate the crisis , the non @-@ cooperative protectionist response is much more likely to be adopted - despite wide recognition that it is highly destructive - when aggregate demand is in short supply .
So what can be done to shore up global aggregate demand and growth prospects , while preserving the economic openness that has benefited major parts of the developing world so greatly in the past 30 years ?
First , countries with current @-@ account surpluses such as Germany , Japan and China must recognize that their own growth ( and that of others ) depends on reducing the global savings @-@ investment imbalance , which will result in narrowing external deficits elsewhere .
This needs to be done on a sustained basis following the withdrawal of extraordinary fiscal stimulus .
Second , everyone must recognize their stake in restoring balanced advanced @-@ country growth as much and as soon as possible in order to counter the ongoing shortfall in aggregate demand .
After all , advanced countries account for about two @-@ thirds of global GDP , so slow growth in these countries will inevitably impede global growth and truncate the growth potential of much of the developing world .
This challenge , however , is very complex because deleveraging and rebalancing cannot be completed overnight .
But key steps can and should be taken : restoration of fiscal balance in well @-@ communicated plans , commitment to central bank autonomy and low inflation , and striking a thoughtful balance between under- and over @-@ regulation of the financial sector .
Externally , major trading partners and holders of advanced @-@ country assets can support rebalancing by agreeing to avoid sudden and potentially destabilizing shifts in the composition of their balance sheets .
So , two crucial items must claim priority at the top of the world &apos;s economic agenda in the months ahead .
The first is re @-@ regulation of advanced countries financial systems with a view to ensuring greater stability without impairing essential functions or unnecessarily elevating the cost of capital .
The second is a set of understandings and commitments among the major advanced and developing countries to rebalance the global economy in order to restore aggregate demand and growth .
If that can be accomplished , the world will have taken a major step toward a relatively smooth , effective , and equitable global economic recovery .
Financing the Next Development Agenda
WASHINGTON , DC - As the 2015 target date for the Millennium Development Goals approaches , the United Nations is intensifying its efforts to foster debate about what comes next for promotion of development worldwide .
The outcome of these discussions will shape policies and investment aimed at spurring GDP growth , strengthening human capital , and promoting more inclusive prosperity .
With the global population expected to reach nine billion people by 2050 - a significant proportion of whom will reside in developing or underdeveloped countries - the international community must improve access to education , health care , and employment opportunities worldwide .
Meanwhile , the prospect of a rise in global temperature of more than 2 ° C ( 3.6 ° F ) over pre @-@ industrial levels by the end of this century ( which would trigger global warming &apos;s most damaging effects ) calls for higher investment in sustainable urbanization , climate @-@ smart agriculture , and social safety nets . Both factors challenge us to define , in the longer term , more sustainable patterns of production and consumption .
Governments , civil society , and the private sector must rise to the challenge , cooperating to find and implement creative solutions .
But , first , they must anticipate the associated financing requirements , which will soon surpass the current capacities of governments and international donors , and take action now to activate new , reliable sources of financing .
To start , governments should design targeted , evidence @-@ based policies and support the development of sound institutions .
This would make government services more effective , while helping to catalyze additional development aid from traditional donors and mobilize private @-@ sector resources .
In many countries , there is considerable scope for domestic resource mobilization .
Broadening the tax base , improving tax administration , and closing gaps in the value @-@ added tax could make a significant difference in lower @-@ income countries , where tax revenues account for only about 10 @-@ 14 % of GDP , compared to 20 @-@ 30 % of GDP in high @-@ income countries .
More equitable taxation would have a positive impact on governance , another important tool for mobilizing domestic resources .
With improved corporate and public governance and clear transfer @-@ pricing policies , resource @-@ rich countries could shore up their capacity to negotiate fair contracts with extractive industries , balance revenues and expenditures over time , and manage their natural endowments more transparently .
Progress in these areas would help governments to channel their spending more effectively toward those who would benefit the most .
For example , only 8 % of the $ 409 billion spent on fossil @-@ fuel subsidies in 2010 reached the poorest 20 % of the population .
A targeted support program could increase substantially the efficiency of spending , freeing up resources for education , health , and poverty eradication .
Furthermore , promoting financial deepening and inclusiveness could accelerate private @-@ sector growth , creating more opportunities . Indeed , broader access to financial services would help the estimated 400 million micro , small , and medium @-@ size enterprises in developing countries to prosper , while enabling the 2.5 billion people worldwide who currently lack access to such services to build their assets .
A deeper and more efficient financial sector would also reduce transaction costs and facilitate risk management .
Local @-@ currency bond markets could help to develop domestic investor bases and mobilize domestic savings to support long @-@ term investments .
At the same time , the international community should work to improve the availability and effectiveness of official development assistance .
The ODA target of 0.7 % of GDP - agreed in 2002 at the International Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey , Mexico - should motivate countries to increase their contributions .
They can also take steps to make ODA more predictable from year to year .
Donors should structure aid to ensure that it supports sound national development policies and programs , rather than their own narrow interests .
This is particularly relevant as emerging development partners , especially the BRICS ( Brazil , Russia , India , China , and South Africa ) , offer new kinds of aid packages that incorporate investment and non @-@ financial assistance .
Private charities , which have been instrumental in promoting innovation in fields such as health care , the environment , and education , could provide valuable insight into channeling aid more effectively .
More generally , improving coordination among donors would help to maximize the impact of aid on the ground .
While ODA remains an important source of financing for fragile and very @-@ low @-@ income countries , it represents only 7 % of net financial flows to developing countries , where foreign direct investment , remittances , long @-@ term debt , and portfolio investment have a larger impact .
Donors should leverage aid to &quot; grow the pie &quot; and to diversify financing sources for the world &apos;s poorest countries by providing risk guarantees , innovative investment vehicles , debt syndication , and co @-@ financing arrangements .
Attracting even a fraction of the assets held by institutional investors , sovereign @-@ wealth funds , and public pension funds could boost development finance substantially .
Diaspora populations are another major potential source of development financing .
Reducing transfer costs , which average an estimated 9 % of the value of transactions , would put more money into the hands of those who need it most .
Tailoring financial products for diaspora communities could attract resources for investment , while reinforcing migrants &quot; ties - economic and otherwise - to their home countries .
Finally , the international community bears a special responsibility for delivering global public goods .
The responsibility to preserve the environment , stem the spread of communicable diseases , strengthen the international financial architecture , enhance developing @-@ country participation in the global trading system , and facilitate the exchange of knowledge lies at the intersection of national development priorities and global interests .
Duty @-@ free , quota @-@ free access to OECD markets , complemented by simpler , more transparent rules of origin , would raise GDP by 1 % in the least @-@ developed countries , lifting millions out of poverty .
Investment in statistical capacity would help governments and businesses worldwide to make better policy decisions , based on a more accurate accounting of the associated costs and benefits .
The challenge of the post @-@ 2015 development agenda lies in finding creative solutions to support prosperity , equality , and sustainability .
Together , governments , civil society , international organizations , and the private sector can improve the availability and quality of finance for development , and shape a better future for all .
Adapting to Climate Change
COPENHAGEN - Striking the right balance between preventing global warming and adapting to its effects is one of the most important - and most vexing - policy questions of our age .
It is also often ignored .
According to the conventional wisdom of many environmental campaigners , we should first do everything we can to mitigate global warming , and only then focus on adaptation strategies .
This seems wrong - even immoral - if we could do more for people and the planet through adaptation .
Moreover , it is inconsistent with the inescapable fact that , whatever we do , we cannot prevent all of global warming &apos;s effects .
If we are ill @-@ prepared , global warming will cause more deaths and devastation , especially in poor countries and fragile societies .
Adaptation would also mean saving many lives from catastrophes not related to global warming .
If we prepare societies for more ferocious hurricanes in the future , for example , we are also helping them to cope better with today &apos;s extreme weather .
There has been a huge amount of research into the ways that humans cause climate change , and how we can reduce it .
Much less work has been devoted to adaptation .
It is important to acknowledge that some adaptation strategies will lead to more greenhouse @-@ gas emissions .
Responding to water scarcity by re @-@ using and treating wastewater , or through deep @-@ well pumping and desalination , will increase fossil @-@ fuel use .
Using more air @-@ conditioning to cool our houses in summer will do the same - although this is vital if we want to save lives .
Adaptation could allow for higher carbon emissions in another way : reducing the damage and harm that we experience from global warming , giving us more time to implement alternatives to reliance on fossil fuels .
Should any of this stop us from using adaptation strategies ?
To arrive at an informed answer , we need to work out how the planet will look in 2100 if we invest different amounts in adaptation and carbon cuts .
We need to take into account the increase in emissions that adaptation will cause .
The most critical issue isn &apos;t any rise or fall in emissions . It is how much climate damage we can avoid .
How much of the planet can we help by dealing with rising sea levels ?
How many lives can we spare from heat , starvation , or malaria ?
These are the real reasons we care about global warming .
Reaching a proper answer to these questions requires extensive economic modeling , with different variables calculated and regional differences analyzed .
New research by three Italian economists , Francesco Bosello , Carlo Carraro , and Enrica De Cian does this , and , ultimately , provides a powerful economic case for a much greater focus on adaptation .
They first look at the different ways that climate change will affect us at mid @-@ century .
This work is based on standard scenarios , and carries the typical caveats of predictions far into the future .
Nevertheless , they find that many of our biggest concerns will turn out to be trivial , or even beneficial .
Sea @-@ level rises will be a very minor concern for every country , with the financial impact adding up to less than 0.1 % of GDP .
Health problems will be negligible for all but a few nations .
And global warming &apos;s impact would reduce energy consumption for almost all nations .
The important effects are on agriculture and tourism , where nations will lose , on average , about 0.5 % of GDP from each sector .
But much of this damage will be avoided by people choosing for themselves to adapt to a change in their environment .
Farmers will choose plants that thrive in heat .
New houses will be designed to deal with warmer temperatures .
Simple economic models , often quoted in the media , show that unconstrained global warming would cost a substantial 2 % of GDP in the rich world by the end of the century .
But this fails to acknowledge that people will change their behavior when the environment changes .
Taking adaptation into account , rich countries will adapt to the negative consequences of global warming and exploit the positive changes , creating a total
Poor countries will be hit harder , however .
Adaptation will reduce the climate change @-@ related losses from 5 % of GDP to slightly less than 3 % - but this is still a significant impact .
The real challenge of global warming , therefore , lies in tackling its impact on the Third World .
Here , more needs to be done , above and beyond the adaptation that will happen naturally .
Importantly , the new research shows that adaptation would achieve a lot more than cuts in carbon emissions .
Reducing emissions to a level that does not extinguish economic growth could avert $ 3 trillion worth of damage , whereas adaptation could prevent around $ 8 trillion worth of damage .
For every dollar spent on adaptation , we would achieve about $ 1.70 worth of positive changes for the planet .
The economic case for focusing more on adaptation is clear .
The crucial next step is to ensure that economic arguments become a stronger part of our political debate about how to address global warming .
Crashing the SDR
SANTA BARBARA - The Chinese government &apos;s campaign to have its currency , the renminbi , included in the International Monetary Fund &apos;s reserve asset appears to be on the brink of success .
Last week , IMF staff formally recommended adding the renminbi to the basket of currencies that determines the value of its so @-@ called Special Drawing Rights ( SDRs ) .
The addition of the renminbi to the basket , which currently includes the US dollar , the euro , the British pound , and the Japanese yen , would provide China with a boost to its prestige .
More important , it would advance the government &apos;s efforts to internationalize the renminbi .
But it would also be a mistake .
The decision to recommend the renminbi &apos;s inclusion , far from having been made on sound economic grounds , can only be understood as political .
As such , the long @-@ term consequences are likely to be regrettable .
On a purely technical basis , the renminbi &apos;s qualifications for inclusion in the SDR basket are questionable .
Traditionally , the IMF has insisted on two criteria : a currency &apos;s issuing country must be among the world &apos;s leading exporters , and the currency must be &quot; freely usable &quot; - widely used and traded .
As the world &apos;s largest exporter , China clearly meets the first condition .
The second , however , is probably still beyond its reach .
The renminbi is by no means in the same league as the SDR basket &apos;s four incumbent currencies .
In 2014 , China &apos;s currency ranked seventh in global central @-@ bank reserves , eighth in international bond issuance , and 11th in global currency trading . Moreover , the renminbi remains non @-@ convertible for most capital transactions , China &apos;s financial markets are primitive , and trading margins for the exchange rate are still set daily by the monetary authorities .
Indeed , as recently as August , the IMF was skeptical about adding the renminbi to the SDR basket , saying that &quot; significant work &quot; was still needed , and suggesting that a decision should be put off until 2016 in order to ensure a &quot; smooth &quot; transition .
So why did the IMF flip ?
The answer is obvious : China mounted a full @-@ court press to change minds .
In August , the currency &apos;s exchange @-@ rate regime was loosened slightly .
Renminbi @-@ denominated government bonds were issued in London , and plans were laid to create new trading platforms for the currency in several European financial centers .
And Chinese policymakers made it abundantly clear how unhappy they would be with a negative decision .
Their pressure paid off .
One by one , Western governments fell in line behind the renminbi , despite its practical limitations .
The Fund got the message , and now the fix is in .
The recommendation to enlarge the SDR basket has been warmly backed by Christine Lagarde , the IMF &apos;s managing director , and a final decision by the Fund &apos;s executive board is expected at the end of the month .
Many would argue that this is a positive development .
Certainly , it mollifies China &apos;s leaders , offering them a stronger incentive to continue to work within the existing international monetary regime .
Recent Chinese initiatives , especially the creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank , have given rise to fears that the country intends to build a new set of international institutions to compete with Western @-@ dominated organizations like the IMF .
The decision to add the renminbi to the SDR basket may have put that danger into remission .
On the other hand , the move sets a worrying precedent , injecting politics into a policy area that had been governed by objective economic considerations .
Conceivably , over the longer term , China &apos;s successful campaign could now open the door to lobbying by other governments to include their currencies as well .
Why not add the Swiss franc or the Canadian dollar ?
Or , for that matter , why not include the Russian ruble or Indian rupee ?
What was once the dignified preserve of obviously elite currencies could become the site of messy political battles for elevated status .
Of course , it can be argued that China &apos;s recent economic trajectory means that it is only a matter of time before the renminbi does become a match for the SDR &apos;s incumbents .
After all , international use of the currency has been growing exponentially .
But that optimistic assessment overestimates the renminbi &apos;s prospects and illustrates the danger of linear extrapolation of the past into the future .
Likewise , use of the renminbi for the purpose of invoicing and settling trade with China is bound to continue growing .
But in terms of the all @-@ important roles of a currency as an investment vehicle or reserve asset , the outlook for the renminbi is much less promising , owing to China &apos;s still @-@ tight capital controls and low level of financial development .
Nor is inclusion of the renminbi in the SDR basket likely to provide as big a boost to the currency &apos;s internationalization as many believe .
Some central banks may decide to follow suit , adding renminbi @-@ denominated assets to their reserves to match the composition of the basket .
But the increase will be marginal at best - some $ 40 billion in the next few years , according to the IMF &apos;s calculations .
With global reserves now totaling more than $ 10 trillion , that is a mere drop in the proverbial bucket .
The political reasons for including the renminbi in the SDR are all too clear .
Unfortunately , the risks of doing so are no less obvious .
अंतर ् राष ् ट ् रीय कर सहयोग की विफलता
न ् यूयॉर ् क - दुनिया की अधिकतर सरकारें कराधान के मामलों में सहयोग करने में रुचि रखती हैं क ् योंकि वे विकास के वित ् तपोषण के लिए अधिक कर राजस ् व जुटाने और ऐसी व ् यापक कर @-@ वंचन योजनाओं पर अंकुश लगाने के लिए उत ् सुक हैं जिनका पिछले वर ् ष तथाकथित लक ् ज ़ मबर ् ग लीक कांड में खुलासा हुआ था । फिर भी पिछले महीने अदीस अबाबा में आयोजित विकास के लिए वित ् तपोषण पर तीसरे अंतर ् राष ् ट ् रीय सम ् मेलन में , अंतर ् राष ् ट ् रीय कर सहयोग को मजबूत करने की गति में अचानक अवरोध आ गया था ।
विकसित देशों ने इस सम ् मेलन में संयुक ् त राष ् ट ् र की विशेषज ् ञों की मौजूदा समिति के स ् थान पर संयुक ् त राष ् ट ् र के भीतर एक अंतर @-@ सरकारी कर निकाय की स ् थापना करने के एक प ् रस ् ताव को रोक दिया । ये देश इस बात पर जोर देते हैं कि कर सहयोग के मामले पर अनन ् य रूप से ओईसीडी के नेतृत ् व में विचार किया जाना चाहिए , जो एक ऐसा निकाय है जिसका नियंत ् रण उनके हाथ में है ।
दुनिया के बाकी देशों को यह आशा करनी चाहिए कि 13 साल पहले मॉन ् टेरी , मेक ् सिको में विकास के लिए वित ् तपोषण पर पहले अंतर ् राष ् ट ् रीय सम ् मेलन में जिस अंतर ् राष ् ट ् रीय कर सहयोग की शुरूआत हुई थी , इससे उसकी प ् रगति का अंत नहीं होगा बल ् कि इसमें एक ठहराव आएगा । दो वर ् ष बाद , 2004 में , संयुक ् त राष ् ट ् र आर ् थिक और सामाजिक परिषद ( ECOSOC ) ने कर विशेषज ् ञों के अपने &quot; तदर ् थ समूह &quot; को एक नियमित समिति के रूप में उन ् नत किया । इसका अर ् थ यह था कि विशेषज ् ञ नियमित रूप से मिलेंगे और वे एक विस ् तारित अधिदेश के अंतर ् गत कार ् य करेंगे जिसका कार ् यक ् षेत ् र मॉडल दोहरे @-@ कराधान की संधि को अद ् यतन करने मात ् र से बहुत अधिक बढ ़ गया था ।
चार वर ् ष बाद , दोहा , कतर में विकास के लिए वित ् तपोषण पर दूसरे सम ् मेलन में , नीति निर ् माताओं ने यह स ् वीकार किया कि कर संबंधी मामलों में अभी और अधिक किया जाना जरूरी है , और उन ् होंने ECOSOC से अनुरोध किया कि वह संस ् थागत व ् यवस ् थाओं को मजबूत करने पर विचार करे । और उसके बाद , अदीस अबाबा सम ् मेलन के वर ् ष में , संयुक ् त राष ् ट ् र के महासचिव ने &quot; संयुक ् त राष ् ट ् र के तत ् वावधान में , कर सहयोग पर एक अंतर @-@ सरकारी समिति &quot; की आवश ् यकता का समर ् थन किया ।
उनके समर ् थन , गैर @-@ सरकारी संगठनों और अंतर ् राष ् ट ् रीय कॉर ् पोरेट कराधान के सुधार के लिए स ् वतंत ् र आयोग का भारी समर ् थन मिलने से 77 देशों के समूह और चीन के इर ् द @-@ गिर ् द संगठित विकासशील देशों की इस मांग को और अधिक बल मिला कि वैश ् विक कर मानदंड स ् थापित करने के मामले में उन ् हें भी अपनी राय प ् रकट करने का समान अधिकार मिलना चाहिए । अदीस अबाबा में वार ् ता के अंतिम क ् षणों तक वे एक ऐसे अंतर @-@ सरकारी निकाय की मांग पर डटे रहे जिसके पास अंतर ् राष ् ट ् रीय कर सहयोग के लिए सुसंगत वैश ् विक ढांचा बनाने के लिए अधिदेश और संसाधन हों ।
लेकिन इसका कोई लाभ नहीं हुआ : संयुक ् त राज ् य अमेरिका और यूनाइटेड किंगडम - जो &quot; लक ् स लीक &quot; में फंसे कई बहुराष ् ट ् रीय निगमों का मूल @-@ स ् थान है - के नेतृत ् व में विकसित देश वैश ् विक शासन में इस बहुप ् रतीक ् षित कदम को रोकने में सफल रहे । अंत में , अदीस अबाबा की कार ् रवाई के एजेंडा के अनुसार विशेषज ् ञों की वर ् तमान समिति अपने 2004 के अधिदेश के अनुसार कार ् य करती रहेगी , प ् रति वर ् ष तीन अतिरिक ् त बैठक दिवस होंगे , ये सभी स ् वैच ् छिक योगदान के माध ् यम से वित ् तपोषित होंगे । यह अत ् यधिक निराशाजनक परिणाम है ।
विकसित देशों के पास तर ् क तो है - लेकिन कोई ठोस तर ् क नहीं है । ओईसीडी , जिसके सदस ् य मुख ् य रूप से दुनिया के 34 सबसे अमीर देश हैं , के पास निश ् चित रूप से कराधान पर अंतर ् राष ् ट ् रीय मानक स ् थापित करने की क ् षमता है । फिर भी कर मानदंडों के मामले में कुछ देशों के एक चयनित समूह का वर ् चस ् व होने का मतलब यह रहा है कि वास ् तव में , कराधान के लिए वैश ् विक शासन का ढाँचा भूमंडलीकरण के साथ तालमेल नहीं रख पाया है ।
2002 में हुई मॉन ् टेरी आम सहमति में अंतर ् राष ् ट ् रीय आर ् थिक निर ् णय लेने और मानदंड स ् थापित करने में विकासशील देशों की राय सुने जाने और उनकी भागीदारी को बढ ़ ाने की मांग को शामिल किया गया था । हालांकि ओईसीडी मानदंडों को स ् थापित करने के लिए अपने विचार @-@ विमर ् शों में भाग लेने के लिए कुछ विकासशील देशों को आमंत ् रित तो करता है लेकिन यह उन ् हें निर ् णय लेने की कोई शक ् ति प ् रदान नहीं करता है । इस प ् रकार ओईसीडी वैश ् विक स ् तर पर प ् रतिनिधित ् व करनेवाले एक अंतर @-@ सरकारी मंच के लिए किराए की एक कमजोर कोख के रूप में है ।
इस तरह के निकाय का संचालन संयुक ् त राष ् ट ् र के तत ् वावधान में किया जाना चाहिए जिसके पास वैश ् वीकरण की चुनौतियों के लिए सुसंगत वैश ् विक मानकों के साथ प ् रभावी ढंग से प ् रतिक ् रिया करने के लिए आवश ् यक संस ् थागत औचित ् य उपलब ् ध हो , ताकि अपमानजनक कर प ् रथाओं का विरोध किया जा सके और विश ् व भर में कंपनियों के लाभों पर उचित कराधान सुनिश ् चित किया जा सके ।
अदीस अबाबा में हुई निराशा के बावजूद , अंतर ् राष ् ट ् रीय कर प ् रणाली में सुधार के लिए मांग को दबा पाने की संभावना नहीं है । इसके बजाय , यह मांग चहुँ ओर अधिक जोर से बढ ़ ेगी , क ् योंकि अंतर ् राष ् ट ् रीय सहयोग के मामले में किसी प ् रकार के समझौते के बारे में विकसित देशों के प ् रतिकूल प ् रतिरोध का परिणाम ऐसे एकतरफा कर उपायों की सुनामी के रूप में होगा जो ओईसीडी के नियंत ् रण से बाहर होंगे ।
The Mouse Click that Roared
CAMBRIDGE - Until recently , cyber security has primarily interested computer geeks and cloak @-@ and @-@ dagger types .
The Internet &apos;s creators , part of a small , enclosed community , were very comfortable with an open system in which security was not a primary concern .
But , with some three billion or so users on the Web nowadays , that very openness has become a serious vulnerability ; indeed , it is endangering the vast economic opportunities that the Internet has opened for the world .
A &quot; cyber attack &quot; can take any number of forms , including simple probes , defacement of Web sites , denial @-@ of @-@ service attacks , espionage , and destruction of data .
And the term &quot; cyber war , &quot; though best defined as any hostile action in cyberspace that amplifies or is equivalent to major physical violence , remains equally protean , reflecting definitions of &quot; war &quot; that range from armed conflict to any concerted effort to solve a problem ( for example , &quot; war on poverty &quot; ) .
Cyber war and cyber espionage are largely associated with states , while cyber crime and cyber terrorism are mostly associated with non @-@ state actors .
The highest costs currently stem from espionage and crime ; but , over the next decade or so , cyber war and cyber terrorism may become greater threats than they are today .
Moreover , as alliances and tactics evolve , the categories may increasingly overlap .
Terrorists might buy malware from criminals , and governments might find it useful to hide behind both .
Some people argue that deterrence does not work in cyberspace , owing to the difficulties of attribution .
But that is facile : inadequate attribution affects inter @-@ state deterrence as well , yet it still operates .
Even when the source of an attack can be successfully disguised under a &quot; false flag , &quot; governments may find themselves sufficiently enmeshed in symmetrically interdependent relationships such that a major attack would be counterproductive .
China , for example , would lose from an attack that severely damaged the American economy , and vice versa .
An unknown attacker may also be deterred by cyber @-@ security measures .
If firewalls are strong , or redundancy and resilience allow quick recovery , or the prospect of a self @-@ enforcing response ( &quot; an electric fence &quot; ) seems possible , an attack becomes less attractive .
While accurate attribution of the ultimate source of a cyber attack is sometimes difficult , the determination does not have to be airtight .
To the extent that false flags are imperfect and rumors of the source of an attack are widely deemed credible ( though not legally probative ) , reputational damage to an attacker &apos;s soft power may contribute to deterrence .
Finally , a reputation for offensive capability and a declared policy that keeps open the means of retaliation can help to reinforce deterrence .
Of course , non @-@ state actors are harder to deter , so improved defenses such as pre @-@ emption and human intelligence become important in such cases .
But , among states , even nuclear deterrence was more complex than it first looked , and that is doubly true of deterrence in the cyber domain .
Given its global nature , the Internet requires a degree of international cooperation to be able to function .
Some people call for the cyber equivalent of formal arms @-@ control treaties .
But differences in cultural norms and the difficulty of verification would make such treaties hard to negotiate or implement .
At the same time , it is important to pursue international efforts to develop rules of the road that can limit conflict .
The most promising areas for international cooperation today most likely concern problems posed for states by third parties such as criminals and terrorists .
Russia and China have sought to establish a treaty establishing broad international oversight of the Internet and &quot; information security , &quot; which would prohibit deception and embedding malicious code or circuitry that could be activated in the event of war .
But the US has argued that arms @-@ control measures banning offensive capabilities could weaken defenses against attacks and would be impossible to verify or enforce .
Likewise , in terms of political values , the US has resisted agreements that could legitimize authoritarian governments &quot; censorship of the Internet - for example , by the &quot; great firewall of China . &quot;
Moreover , cultural differences impede any broad agreements on regulating online content .
Nonetheless , it may be possible to identify behaviors like cyber crime that are illegal in many domestic jurisdictions .
Trying to limit all intrusions would be impossible , but one could start with cyber crime and cyber terrorism involving non @-@ state parties .
Here , major states would have an interest in limiting damage by agreeing to cooperate on forensics and controls .
The transnational cyber domain poses new questions about the meaning of national security .
Some of the most important responses must be national and unilateral , focused on hygiene , redundancy , and resilience .
It is likely , however , that major governments will soon discover that the insecurity created by non @-@ state cyber actors will require closer cooperation among governments .
समलैंगिक होने की विकास लागत
लंदन - नाइजीरिया में रहने वाले समलैंगिक व ् यक ् ति के रूप में , मेरी सबसे बड ़ ी चुनौती थी , अपनी लिंगीयता और अपने कार ् य में से किसी एक का चयन करना ।
2004 में , मैंने अपने अभिनय कैरियर की शुरूआत की थी । मैंने अभी @-@ अभी विश ् वविद ् यालय छोड ़ ा था , और मुझे नाइजीरिया के एक सबसे अधिक लोकप ् रिय टीवी स ् टेशन , गैलेक ् सी टेलीविज ़ न पर प ् राइम टाइम धारावाहिक &quot; रोज ़ ेज ़ एंड थॉर ् न ् स &quot; में मुख ् य पात ् र के रूप में प ् रस ् तुत किया गया था । मैं एक अमीर परिवार के इकलौते बेटे &quot; रिचर ् ड &quot; की भूमिका निभा रहा था , जिसका घर की नौकरानी के साथ प ् रेम @-@ प ् रसंग चल रहा था ।
तभी मेरे निजी जीवन के बारे में कानाफूसी होनी शुरू हो गई , और मैंने फ ़ ैसला कर लिया कि अब इससे बाहर आने का समय आ गया है । इसलिए अपनी लिंगीयता के बारे में चर ् चा करने के लिए मैं नाइजीरिया के सबसे ज ़ ् यादा देखे जाने वाले टीवी वार ् ता शो पर जाने के लिए राजी हो गया ।
लगभग तुरंत ही , धारावाहिक से मेरे पात ् र को हटा दिया गया । और मेरा कार ् य ख ़ त ् म होते ही , मेरी वित ् तीय सुरक ् षा भी ख ़ त ् म हो गई । अफ ़ ् रीका में अनेक समलैंगिक पुरुषों और महिलाओं की तरह , मुझे आर ् थिक स ् वतंत ् रता और मानसिक कारावास में से किसी एक को चुनना था ।
इस साल , नाइजीरिया और युगांडा ने समलैंगिकता @-@ विरोधी कठोर क ़ ानून बनाया है , जिससे दुनिया भर में मानव अधिकारों के बारे में बहस छिड ़ गई है । यह बहस विश ् व बैंक में भी शुरू हो गई है , जिसके अध ् यक ् ष , जिम योंग किम ने हाल ही में घोषित किया कि &quot; सुनियोजित भेदभाव लोगों और समाज के लिए ख ़ राब है । &quot;
किम के इस वक ् तव ् य की आलोचना हुई है और इससे विवाद पैदा हुआ है । अकसर , जैसा कि युगांडा और नाइजीरिया में होता है , हम इस दावे के बारे में सुनते हैं कि समलिंगी , उभयलिंगी , और विपरीत लिंगी ( LGBT ) लोगों के ख ़ िलाफ ़ सरकारी स ् तर पर भेदभाव का विरोध बस अफ ़ ् रीका पर &quot; पश ् चिमी &quot; मूल ् य थोपने का तरीका मात ् र है । लेकिन इसमें यह मान लिया जाता है कि समलैंगिकता &quot; गैर @-@ अफ ़ ् रीकी &quot; है । और , इस बात का सबूत न होने के बावजूद कि किसी देश विशेष या महाद ् वीप में LGBT लोग नहीं हैं ( और इसके विपरीत पर ् याप ् त सबूत होते हैं ) , यह एक ऐसी धारणा है जिसे अधिकाधिक अफ ़ ् रीकी नेताओं ने मान ् यता दी है ।
2006 में , राष ् ट ् रपति ओलुसेगुन ओबासैंजो , जो उस समय नाइजीरिया क � � � राष ् ट ् रपति थे , ऐसा करने वाले व ् यक ् तियों में पहले व ् यक ् ति थे । 2014 में समलैंगिकता @-@ विरोधी विधेयक को क ़ ानून बनाने के लिए हस ् ताक ् षर करते समय , युगांडा के राष ् ट ् रपति योवेरी मुसेवेनी ने भी यही किया । गाम ् बिया के राष ् ट ् रपति याह ् या जमेह से लेकर जिम ् बाब ् वे के रॉबर ् ट मुगाबे तक , अन ् य नेताओं ने भी उसी सुर में बात की ।
इस तरह के सरकारी नज ़ रिए ने अफ ़ ् रीका के समलैंगिक पुरुषों और स ् त ् रियों के लिए बहुत अधिक पीड ़ ादायक स ् थिति पैदा की है । निश ् चित रूप से , अनेक अफ ़ ् रीकी देशों में समलैंगिक लोगों के लिए होमोफोबिया की क ़ ीमत दर ् दनाक रूप से स ् पष ् ट है : क ़ ानूनी दंड , सामाजिक बहिष ् कार , और भीड ़ का न ् याय ।
लेकिन अफ ़ ् रीका के समलैंगिकता @-@ विरोधी नेता एक बात भूल जाते हैं : क ़ ानूनी सुरक ् षाएँ देना केवल मानवाधिकारों का मुद ् दा ही नहीं है , बल ् कि यह आर ् थिक मुद ् दा भी है । किम की बात बिल ् कुल सही है , और शोध ने उन देशों में जहाँ क ़ ानून और सामाजिक व ् यवहार समान सेक ् स संबंधों का बहिष ् कार किया जाता है , समलैंगिकता @-@ विरोधी भावना और ग ़ रीबी के बीच संबंधों की खोज के द ् वारा , होमोफोबिया की आर ् थिक लागत का मूल ् यांकन करना शुरू कर दिया है ।
मैसाचुसेट ् स @-@ एमहर ् स ् ट विश ् वविद ् यालय के एक अर ् थशास ् त ् री , एम.वी. ली बागेट ने मार ् च 2014 में विश ् व बैंक की एक बैठक में भारत में होमोफोबिया के आर ् थिक प ् रभाव पर एक अध ् ययन के प ् रारंभिक निष ् कर ् ष प ् रस ् तुत किए हैं । बागेट का अनुमान है कि भारतीय अर ् थव ् यवस ् था को समलैंगिकता @-@ विरोधी कलंक और भेदभाव से पैदा हुए अवसाद , आत ् महत ् या , और HIV उपचार असमानताओं के कारण 2012 में केवल प ् रत ् यक ् ष स ् वास ् थ ् य लागतों में $ 23.1 अरब तक की हानि हुई होगी ।
ऐसी ठोस लागतों के अलावा , समलैंगिक होने से हिंसा , कार ् य की हानि , परिवार की अस ् वीकृति , स ् कूलों में उत ् पीड ़ न , और शादी करने के लिए दबाव भी आ सकता है । इसके परिणामस ् वरूप , अनेक समलैंगिक लोगों की शिक ् षा कम होती है , उत ् पादकता कम होती है , आय कम होती है , स ् वास ् थ ् य ख ़ राब होता है , और जीवन @-@ काल कम होता है ।
नाइजीरिया में , 2005 में अपनी लिंगीयता के बारे में संदेह होने के कारण अपना कार ् य खोने वाले लोगों की बढ ़ ती संख ् या के निदान के रूप में मैंने समान अधिकारों के लिए स ् वतंत ् र परियोजना ( TIERS ) शुरू की थी । अपने पहले साल के दौरान , हमने दर ् जनों लोगों को सहायता प ् रदान की । एक युवक &quot; ओलुमाइड &quot; को तब अस ् थायी आवास दिया गया जब उसके परिवार ने समलैंगिक होने के कारण उसे घर से बाहर निकाल दिया था । एक अन ् य व ् यक ् ति &quot; उछे &quot; को उसकी लिंगीयता का राज ़ खुलने के बाद उसे बावर ् ची की नौकरी से निकाल दिया गया था । TIERS ने उसे आवास दिया और केटरिंग व ् यवसाय स ् थापित करने के लिए पूँजी की मदद की । हालाँकि लगभग 10 साल बीत चुके हैं , लेकिन उनके असली नाम का उपयोग करना अभी भी सुरक ् षित नहीं है ।
पूरे अफ ़ ् रीका में , नियोक ् ताओं , मकान @-@ मालिकों , स ् वास ् थ ् य @-@ सेवा प ् रदाताओं , शैक ् षिक संस ् थानों , और अन ् य लोगों पर LGBT लोगों को बाहर करने के लिए बढ ़ ते दबाव के कारण भेदभाव की आर ् थिक लागत बढ ़ रही है ।
आज , विश ् व बैंक और अन ् य विकास एजेंसियाँ उन वैश ् विक विकास प ् राथमिकताओं का निर ् धारण कर रही हैं जिन ् हें सहस ् राब ् दि विकास लक ् ष ् यों ( MDGs ) की समाप ् ति के बाद लिया जाएगा , जो आधिकारिक तौर पर 2015 में समाप ् त हो जाएँगे और लैंगिक समानता को बढ ़ ावा देने और आर ् थिक विकास के लिए रणनीति के रूप में महिलाओं को सशक ् त बनाने के लिए विशिष ् ट लक ् ष ् यों को शामिल किया है । भविष ् य पर नज ़ र रखते हुए , विश ् व बैंक को LGBT अधिकारों के लिए भी वही दृष ् टिकोण अपनाना चाहिए और ऋण प ् राप ् त करने वाले देशों के लिए लिंगीयता और लैंगिक पहचान के लिए क ़ ानूनी सुरक ् षाओं की शर ् त रखनी चाहिए ।
MDG में महिलाओं के अधिकारों को मान ् यता प ् रदान किए जाने के फलस ् वरूप &quot; पश ् चिमी &quot; मूल ् यों को लागू करने से अफ ़ ् रीकी संस ् कृतियाँ दूषित नहीं हुईं ; वास ् तव में , इसने अनेक अफ ़ ् रीकी देशों को मज ़ बूत बनाया है , जो अब सरकार में महिलाओं के प ् रतिनिधित ् व में दुनिया का नेतृत ् व करते हैं । LGBT लोगों के लिए इसी तरह की सुरक ् षा प ् रदान करके , अंतर ् राष ् ट ् रीय निवेश और सहायता से आर ् थिक निष ् पादन में सुधार हो सकता है और बुनियादी मानव अधिकारों के लिए सम ् मान को मज ़ बूत किया जा सकता है ।
विश ् व बैंक ने , जो हमेशा &quot; राजनीतिक &quot; सवालों में उलझने से बचने के प ् रति सावधान रहता है , इस बात पर ज ़ ोर दिया है कि वह वैश ् विक मानवाधिकार प ् रवर ् तक नहीं है । लेकिन विश ् व बैंक अपने सदस ् यों को उनके मानव अधिकारों के दायित ् वों को साकार करने में मदद करके अपनी मददगार की भूमिका को भी अधिकाधिक पहचान रहा है । LGBT अधिकारों का मामला एक कसौटी के रूप में होना चाहिए ।
ऐसी सरकारों को सहायता देने के फलस ् वरूप , जो विशिष ् ट सामाजिक समूहों का बहिष ् कार करने की अनुमति देती हैं , वास ् तविक आर ् थिक लागत बहुत अधिक हो सकती है । नए ऋणों पर विचार करते समय यह सुनिश ् चित करने के लिए क ़ दम उठाए जाने चाहिए कि लाभ यथासंभव समावेशी हों ।
अगर विश ् व बैंक - जो वर ् तमान में नाइजीरिया को लगभग $ 5.5 अरब का ऋण दे रहा है और यह उम ् मीद है कि यह अगले चार सालों में हर साल अतिरिक ् त $ 2 अरब के लिए वचन देगा - इस दिशा में कार ् रवाई करता है , तो हो सकता है कि अन ् य वित ् तदाता भी उसका अनुसरण करें । अफ ़ ् रीका के LGBT लोगों को अपने मानव और आर ् थिक अधिकारों के लिए संघर ् ष में ऐसे शक ् तिशाली सहयोगियों की सख ़ ् त ज ़ रूरत है ।
Adjust and Reschedule or Delay and Default
BRUSSELS - As Greece activates its € 45 billion rescue package with the International Monetary Fund and the European Union , it is becoming clear that a new , far more comprehensive approach is needed .
Two problems need to be addressed : the credibility of Greece &apos;s fiscal stabilization program , and how to cover the country &apos;s medium @-@ term financing gap .
The magnitude of the fiscal adjustment effort being demanded of Greece is now well known .
The deficit has to be reduced by at least 10 percentage points of GDP ( from around 13 % of GDP to less than 3 % of GDP ) .
The key problem , which has not been addressed so far , is that a fiscal adjustment on this scale requires the government to take two steps that can be implemented only with wide social approval : a cut in wages and a cut in social expenditure .
Both steps are now as unpopular in Greece as they are unavoidable .
The country &apos;s competitiveness problems are also well known .
Unit labor costs have increased by 10 @-@ 20 % more than in Germany .
Assuming that Greece wishes to stay within the eurozone , an &quot; internal devaluation , &quot; i.e. , a significant cut in nominal wages , is inevitable .
The government can ( and has ) cut wages in the public sector , but this is not sufficient .
A large cut in private @-@ sector wages also is urgently needed to stimulate exports ( which currently amount to less than 20 % of GDP , even if one counts both goods and services ) to create at least one source of growth .
Greece thus needs a &quot; National Competitiveness Pact &quot; in which government , opposition , employers , and workers agree on a set of measures that cut unit labor costs by at least 10 % .
Three levers could be used to reach this goal : adjustment in nominal wages , extension of working time , and a reduction in social @-@ security contributions ( compensated for by an increase in value @-@ added tax ) .
The mix of measures should be left to Greece to decide , but a cut in unit labor costs of this size is an essential first step for a successful adjustment , and should be a pre @-@ condition for the IMF / EU support package .
Deep cuts in social expenditure are also unavoidable in order to achieve sustainable public finances .
The growing fiscal deficits in Greece over the last decade were essentially the result of a massive increase in the size of state social benefits , from 20 % to close to 30 % of GDP , without any significant increase in tax revenues .
Contrary to popular perception , the public @-@ sector wage bill is only of marginal importance .
The government has already forced through most of the necessary adjustment in this area .
Indeed , cuts in public @-@ sector wages can yield at most 1 @-@ 2 % of GDP in fiscal consolidation .
Given that social expenditure amounts to close to 60 % of total public spending , a successful fiscal adjustment will ultimately require that it be cut significantly .
The alternative , an increase in tax revenues by almost 50 % in the span of a few years , simply is not feasible .
Profound reform of the welfare state and building a modern tax administration system requires time .
But financial markets are in no mood to give Greece time , which brings us to the second major problem facing the country .
In order to gain the breathing space necessary for the reform process to be effective , the Greek government could just announce a simple rescheduling : the due date of all existing public debt is extended by five years at an unchanged interest rate .
In that case , the Greek government would face no redemptions for the next five years and would have to refinance about € 30 billion per year from 2015 onwards , which should be manageable by then .
Official financing needs would then be much more limited , and the IMF / EU package of around € 45 billion should be sufficient to cover most of the progressively lower deficits over this grace period .
Without such a rescheduling , it is unlikely that Greece will be able to roll over the approximately € 30 billion maturing annually for the next few years .
Over time , the eurozone countries would inevitably have to refinance most of Greece &apos;s public debt .
This is a recipe for continuing political problems , as the Greeks would always consider the interest rate too high , while Germany would consider it too low ( at least relative to market rates ) .
Moreover , once the eurozone had started refinancing Greece without any contribution from private creditors , it would be politically impossible to stop .
The type of rescheduling proposed here would signal the Greek government &apos;s readiness to service its debt in full , and thus might be accepted without too much disruption in financial markets .
Of course , markets would view any rescheduling without a credible adjustment program merely as a prelude to a real default later on , thus leading to an even higher risk premium .
But even the best adjustment program cannot be financed without some contribution by private creditors , i.e. , some form of rescheduling .
The only way out for Greece is thus to combine both elements : rescheduling its debt plus national agreements on wages and social expenditure .
The current approach - concentrating only on the financing needs and fiscal adjustment in 2010 , and leaving all the hard choices for later - will not work .
A Global \
ATHENS - The International Monetary Fund &apos;s belated admission that it significantly underestimated the damage that austerity would do to European Union growth rates highlights the self @-@ defeating character of &quot; orthodox &quot; recipes to address the causes of the debt crisis that followed the financial crash of 2008 @-@ 2009 .
Conventional theory suggests that a single country ( or group of countries ) consolidating its finances can expect lower interest rates , a weaker currency , and an improved trade position .
But , because this cannot happen for all major economies simultaneously - one country &apos;s ( or group of countries &quot; ) austerity implies less demand for other countries &quot; products - such policies eventually lead to beggar @-@ thy @-@ neighbor situations .
Indeed , it was this dynamic - against which John Maynard Keynes fought - that made the Great Depression of the 1930 &quot; s so grim .
Today &apos;s problems are compounded by a lack of sufficient private demand - particularly household consumption - in the advanced economies to compensate for demand losses stemming from austerity .
During the last two decades , consumption drove these countries &quot; economic growth , reaching historically high GDP shares .
Moreover , major advanced economies , such as the United States , Germany , and Japan , face longer @-@ term fiscal problems in the form of aging populations or oversize welfare states , limiting their capacity to contribute to demand management .
Recent moves to ease monetary policy have been a step in the right direction ; but , so far , they have not proved to be a game changer .
For domestic demand to act as an engine of growth , policies should shift resources from investment to consumption .
While the magnitudes involved are huge , they must be attained if an extended period of low growth , high unemployment , and declining living standards among the world &apos;s poorest is to be avoided .
International economic policy coordination should be significantly strengthened in order to deal effectively with changes on such a scale .
Start with Europe .
It is by now patently obvious that austerity and domestic reforms are not enough to pull the eurozone &apos;s periphery out of deep recession .
Growing awareness of the failure of current policies is causing social discontent , civil disorder , and political instability , with the recently concluded Italian elections and the growing popular resistance to Greek reform efforts serving as a bellwether .
Returning the eurozone &apos;s peripheral economies to the path of growth requires more than structural reforms and fiscal consolidation .
It also requires a substantial reform of the monetary union &apos;s system of economic governance , aimed at restoring financial stability and lowering borrowing costs , together with a boost in external demand in order to compensate for the effects of austerity .
Reforming governance implies significant progress toward economic unification : centralizing European debt through Eurobonds , mobilizing sufficient rescue funds , allowing the European Central Bank to intervene in the primary bond markets , and establishing both a fiscal and a banking union .
This is a tall order , in view of the reluctance of most EU member states to cede competences to European institutions .
But Europe should move more decisively in this direction .
Otherwise , speculation on member states &quot; national debt will persist , keeping borrowing costs at levels that are inconsistent with the conditions required to sustain economic recovery .
Concerning external demand , intra @-@ European help in the form of reflationary policies in stronger economies is unlikely to prove sufficient , owing primarily to the fiscal and political conditions prevailing in Germany .
Implementing a Marshall Plan @-@ type initiative by mobilizing EU budget resources and additional lending by the European Investment Bank to finance investments in weaker countries could be an alternative , but it lacks political support .
On a global scale , neither the US nor Japan is in a position to provide significant external stimulus .
Only the emerging and developing economies of Asia could effectively contribute to lifting global demand through a coordinated effort aimed at boosting domestic consumption , which , in turn , would stimulate additional investment .
Recent IMF experience suggests that , through appropriate coordination , private funds could be mobilized for big private @-@ public partnership projects linking demand expansion with infrastructure investment .
In other words , a global &quot; New Deal &quot; - combining policies designed to achieve an orderly realignment of consumption and investment worldwide - seems to be required .
The advanced economies should promote productivity @-@ enhancing structural reforms with renewed vigor .
The eurozone should solidify its currency union .
And the emerging and developing economies should support domestic sources of growth .
For such a deal to become possible , certain preconditions must be met .
First , international policy coordination by the G @-@ 20 must be tightened by creating a permanent secretariat to make policy proposals and recommendations concerning macroeconomic and financial developments .
The secretariat should actively cooperate with the IMF to benefit from its analysis , notably regarding exchange rates .
Second , global financial reform must proceed at a faster pace .
The financial sector requires tougher regulation , strengthened supervision , and internationally consistent resolution mechanisms to address the problems posed by very large , global institutions that are considered too big ( or too complex ) to fail .
Such reform is essential if the international financial system is to mediate the sizeable resource transfers that will underpin the required changes in the structure of global demand .
Finally , a new trade pact - possibly , but not necessarily , within the Doha Round - is needed to ensure the major trading powers &quot; access to foreign markets .
This is critically important for inspiring confidence in Asian countries , which might be persuaded to favor domestic , as opposed to external , sources of demand .
Moreover , trade liberalization will also increase consumer confidence worldwide .
The time is right for a new global settlement that targets growth , addresses crisis conditions in certain parts of the world , and rebalances the global economy to set it back on a path of strong and steady growth .
The Other Financial Crisis
NEWPORT BEACH - Two variants of financial crisis continue to wreak havoc on Western economies , fueling joblessness and poverty : the one that we read about regularly in newspapers , involving governments around the world ; and a less visible one at the level of small and medium @-@ size businesses and households .
Until both are addressed properly , the West will remain burdened by sluggish growth , persistently high unemployment , and excessive income and wealth inequality .
The sovereign @-@ debt crisis is well known .
In order to avert a likely depression , governments around the world engaged in fiscal and monetary stimulus in the midst of the global financial crisis .
They succeeded in offsetting nasty economic dislocations caused by private @-@ sector deleveraging , but at the cost of encumbering their fiscal balances and their central banks &quot; balance sheets .
While sovereign credit quality has deteriorated virtually across the board , and will most probably continue to do so , the implications for individual countries vary .
Some Western countries - such as Greece - had fragile government accounts from the outset and tipped quickly into persistent crisis mode .
There they remain , still failing to provide citizens with a light at the end of what already has been a long tunnel .
Other countries had been fiscally responsible , but were overwhelmed by the liabilities that they had assumed from others ( for example , Ireland &apos;s irresponsible banks sank their budget ) .
Still others , including the United States , faced no immediate threat but failed to make progress on longer @-@ term issues . &amp; nbsp ; A few , like Germany , had built deep economic and financial resilience through years of fiscal discipline and structural reforms .
It is not surprising that policy approaches have also varied .
Indeed , they have shared only one , albeit crucial ( and disappointing ) feature : the inability to rely on rapid growth as the &quot; safest &quot; way to deleverage an over @-@ indebted economy .
Greece essentially defaulted on some obligations .
Ireland opted for austerity and reforms , as has the United Kingdom .
The US is gradually transferring resources from creditors to debtors through financial repression .
And Germany is slowly acquiescing to a prudent relative expansion in domestic demand .
So much for the sovereign @-@ debt crisis , which , given its national , regional , and global impact , has been particularly well covered .
After all , sovereigns are called that because they have the power to impose taxes , regulations , and , at the extreme , confiscation .
But the other credit crisis is equally consequential , and receives much less attention , even as it erodes societies &quot; integrity , productive capabilities , and ability to maintain living standards ( particularly for the least fortunate ) .
I know of very few Western countries where small and medium @-@ size companies , as well as middle @-@ income households and those of more limited means , have not experienced a significant decline in their access to credit - not just new financing , but also the ability to roll over old credit lines and loans .
The immediate causes are well known .
They range from subdued bank lending to unusually high risk aversion , and from discredited credit vehicles to the withdrawal of some institutions from credit intermediation altogether .
Such credit constraints are one reason why unemployment rates continue to rise in so many countries - often from already alarming levels , such as 25 % in Greece and Spain ( where youth unemployment is above 50 % ) - and why unemployment remains unusually high in countries like the US ( albeit it at a much lower level ) .
This is not just a matter of lost capabilities and rising poverty ; persistently high unemployment also leads to social unrest , erosion of trust in political leaders and institutions , and the mounting risk of a lost generation .
Indeed , unemployment data in many advanced countries are dominated by long @-@ term joblessness ( usually defined as six months or more ) . Skill erosion becomes a problem for those with prior work experience , while unsuccessful first @-@ time entrants into the labor force are not just unemployed , but risk becoming unemployable .
Governments are doing too little to address the private credit debacle .
Arguably , they must first sort out the sovereign side of the crisis ; but it is not clear that most officials even have a comprehensive plan .
Policy asymmetry is greatest for the countries most acutely affected by the sovereign @-@ debt crisis .
There , the private sector has essentially been left to fend for itself ; and most households and companies are struggling , thus fueling continued economic implosion .
Other countries appear to have adopted a &quot; Field of Dreams &quot; - also known as &quot; build it and they will come &quot; - approach to private credit markets , In the US , for example , artificially low interest rates for home mortgages , resulting from the Federal Reserve &apos;s policy activism , are supposed to kick @-@ start prudent financing .
The European Central Bank is taking a similarly indirect approach .
In both places , other policymaking entities , with much better tools at their disposal , appear either unwilling or unable to play their part .
As such , action by central banks will repeatedly fail to gain sufficient traction .
In fact , only the UK is visibly opting for a more coordinated and direct way to counter the persistent shortfalls stemming from the private part of the credit crisis .
There , the &quot; Funding for Lending Scheme , &quot; jointly designed by the Bank of England and the Treasury , seeks &quot; to boost the incentive for banks and building societies to lend to UK households and non @-@ financial companies , &quot; while holding them accountable for proper behavior .
The UK example is important ; but , given the scope and scale of the challenges , the proposal is a relatively modest one .
The program may stimulate some productive credit intermediation , but it will not make a significant dent in what will remain one of the major obstacles to robust economic recovery .
Proper access to credit for productive segments is an integral part of a well @-@ functioning economy .
Without it , growth falters , job creation is insufficient , and widening income and wealth inequality undermines the social fabric .
That is why any comprehensive approach to restoring the advanced countries &quot; economic and financial vibrancy must target the proper revival of private credit flows .
Advise and Relent
WASHINGTON , DC - Dropping bombs as a solution to the world &apos;s trouble spots may be falling out of fashion ( with the notable exception of Libya ) , but finger wagging is definitely back in .
Hardly a day goes by without a major newspaper somewhere in the West offering sage and specific , but often not @-@ so @-@ friendly , advice to distant struggling democracies on what they &quot; must &quot; do to earn the &quot; international community &apos;s &quot; approbation .
Of course , such advice , like much of newspapers themselves nowadays , comes free of charge .
But it is also advice that is free of responsibility , and , as Stanley Baldwin once said , power without responsibility is the prerogative of the harlot .
There is a considerable gap between offers of advice one cannot refuse and the responsibility to deal with the consequences when that advice proves wrong or extremely difficult to implement .
The world &apos;s advice givers might try to keep this in mind when offering to help leaders of distant countries that are grappling with problems with which the adviser has little or no first @-@ hand experience .
Every once in a while , a profession ( most frequently , economics ) determines that it has reached a consensus on how to solve a problem .
The so @-@ called &quot; Washington Consensus &quot; that held sway before the recent financial crisis was a good example .
In the case of nascent democracies , the formula that is now often made compulsory is this : lift all bans on political activities , liberalize the media , hold elections ( the sooner , the better ) , resolve all minority issues in favor of the minorities , abandon trade barriers , and rid the country of corruption , preferably overnight .
New governments are urged to tackle all of these problems immediately and simultaneously , lest they lose &quot; momentum &quot; and begin backsliding .
The subtext is clear : be like us now .
How to do this is left up to the new leaders , who are often credited with goodness and powers of persuasion they never had and never will have .
In many cases , the cohesiveness of opposition movements that come to power in the wake of a political upheaval may not be what the international media presume it to be .
Indeed , some components of these so @-@ called &quot; democratic coalitions &quot; may not be democratic at all .
Some leaders , such as Nelson Mandela , rise to the historic occasion , against all odds .
Others , such as Kazakhstan &apos;s Nursultan Nazarbayev ( popular with Western media when he first came on the scene ) plainly has not .
How can we help ensure these movements &quot; sustainability in such fluid moments ?
Modesty is a virtue in private life .
It should also be a guide in dispensing political advice .
I would start by keeping in mind that some countries &quot; capacity to absorb advice is limited , so it should be offered in smaller portions .
Where to start ?
The most important and potentially sustaining feature of a new democracy lies in its effort to commit itself to observing international human @-@ rights standards .
In fact , there is a large body of literature that indicates that even countries in the aftermath of internal conflict can reach a higher level of compliance with these standards .
But human rights should not be conflated with democracy .
While democracy is , no doubt , the form of governance that best preserves human rights , the two are not the same thing .
Human rights will not co @-@ exist with dictatorship , or with any other non @-@ democracy , for long .
Setting standards and goals of human rights is a powerful signal that a country is pointing itself in the right direction .
The country is in effect announcing that it is moving toward democratic institutional arrangements .
Banning torture , complying with international standards of prisoners &quot; rights , and enshrining rights of association and public assembly all immediately come to mind .
The embrace of essential human @-@ rights standards as a cornerstone of a country &apos;s development is one of our era &apos;s seminal innovations .
The notion that a dictator can claim the sovereign right to abuse his people has become unacceptable .
A country that makes progress on human rights and commits to the change of behavior required to meet these international standards can also make a decisive turn toward a better future .
We should therefore focus on meeting international human @-@ rights standards as a goal that a new democracy &quot; must &quot; ( to use a favorite word of Western editorial writers ) move toward quickly .
But we should not confuse these values with the other essential elements of progress , such as establishing liberalized trade regimes , creating institutional structures with a separation of powers , and rooting out corruption .
These are absolute necessities for democratic success , but they require longer @-@ term development of institutional capacity .
Corruption , for example , may have cultural antecedents and is part and parcel of institutional weakness .
In most cases , neither can be remedied overnight .
Above all , we need to show patience with the new governments of the countries we hope to see evolving toward democracy , and avoid the tendency to expect instant gratification .
A few months of politics will never overcome a few centuries of sociology .
So , as we watch and wait , we need to be as supportive - but not overbearing - as possible .
Affirmative Action for Europe
The violence in France , fueled by staggering unemployment and ruthless policing , reflects the utter failure of the French model of social integration .
But violence elsewhere in Europe , such as the London bombings of July and the brutal murder of Dutch filmmaker Theo van Gogh on the streets of Amsterdam in November 2004 , had already made Europe &apos;s failure to integrate its minorities painfully clear .
As the riots in France fade , French politicians are agonizing about how to proceed .
Forty years ago , after legal segregation of blacks and whites formally ended in America , the United States was confronted by similar problems .
America &apos;s response shows , however , that integration cannot be viewed as a one @-@ way street .
In addition to imposing demands and constraints on minorities to join the mainstream , society must be willing to demand of itself that it make room for all its citizens .
As a potential model to be followed , Europe should look at the so @-@ called &quot; affirmative action &quot; policies that America enacted to provide opportunities to blacks .
Affirmative action , or &quot; positive discrimination , &quot; as some have called these policies , began with university admissions .
But , in the early 1970 &quot; s , President Richard M. Nixon expanded the scope of affirmative action .
As a result , ethnicity began to be weighed as a positive factor not only in university admissions , but also in public procurement decisions , credit facilities for small enterprises , and government hiring .
The rational for affirmative action in those early years was the fact that , after a long history of systemic injustice , merely outlawing discrimination based on race or gender would not ensure equal opportunity for all .
Such programs are often viewed as contradicting a basic American value , namely that admissions , lending , and hiring decisions should be based on the merits of the individual , not group distinctions .
But they remain in existence three decades later .
Indeed , leading American companies , like General Motors , General Electric , and Walmart , have created affirmative action programs for hiring and selecting suppliers at their own initiative .
Similarly , anchormen and anchorwomen from all ethnic backgrounds populate American television news programs .
In France , by contrast , the appointment of the black anchorwoman Audrey Pulvar was big news on its own , because most of her colleagues in France are white .
Affirmative action in the US has been effective in creating a large African @-@ American middle class .
The percentage of black households earning over $ 50,000 a year ( adjusted for inflation ) has more than tripled over the last four decades , from 9.1 % in 1967 to 27.8 % in 2001 .
Indeed , in the US , more people of color and women hold top jobs in the public and private sector than anywhere else in the world .
The fact that a large black underclass remains - something the recent floods in New Orleans revealed in a horrifically dramatic way - is mainly the result of failing school systems .
Affirmative action programs , of course , have always been vulnerable to attack by those who can &apos;t benefit from them .
In 2003 , a white student asked the US Supreme Court to declare that the use of race in the University of Michigan &apos;s admission policies violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the US Constitution .
The Supreme Court , however , ruled that the program was constitutional , citing a &quot; compelling state interest &quot; in racial diversity .
&quot; Effective participation by members of all racial and ethnic groups in the civil life of our nation , &quot; the court said , &quot; is essential if the dream of one nation , indivisible , is to be realized . &quot;
In reaching its decision , the Supreme Court took into account a legal brief submitted by 60 major American businesses , led by General Motors , asking that affirmative action be upheld .
They argued that the skills needed in today &apos;s global marketplace can only be developed through exposure to a wide diversity of people .
Retired military officers and commanders told the court that affirmative action was essential to maintaining an integrated officer corps .
What America &apos;s affirmative action programs may not do is set quotas for minorities , as this prevents competition between different groups .
But , in comparing groups , it is permitted to use an individual &apos;s status as member of an under @-@ represented minority in his or her favor .
As a result , a university may select a black student with a satisfactory score on the admissions test , even if there is a white student with a better score .
From the current French viewpoint , however , laws and regulations based on ethnicity are regarded as an unwelcome encroachment on the Republican ideal .
French President Jacques Chirac vehemently opposes quotas for immigrants , out of fear that such a policy would stigmatize groups .
And French businesses don &apos;t see it as their role to solve the problems of the suburbs .
Moreover , French Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy hasn &apos;t done much except hand out some special grants to the smartest immigrants from the suburbs .
France does have affirmative action programs , but they address poverty , not ethnicity .
If European politicians are serious about preventing a schism between population groups , affirmative action is essential - not only at the workplace , but also for small business loans , home loans , public procurement , and school admissions .
Tony Blair , who in July was faced with the shortcomings of integration in the UK , should take advantage of the country &apos;s current presidency of the European Union to make affirmative action programs the top priority at next month &apos;s summit of European government leaders in Brussels .
Affordable Green Energy
COPENHAGEN - Public skepticism about global warming may be growing , but the scientific consensus is as solid as ever : man @-@ made climate change is real , and we ignore it at our peril .
But if that issue is settled ( and it should be ) , there is an equally large and important question that remains wide open : what should we do about it ?
One prescription that is bandied about with increasing frequency certainly sounds sensible : the world should drastically cut the amount of greenhouse gases that it pumps into the atmosphere each day .
Specifically , we are told , the goal should be a 50 % reduction in global carbon @-@ dioxide emissions by the middle of the century .
Even its backers concede that achieving this target won &apos;t be easy - and they are right .
In fact , they are so right that they are wrong .
Allow me to explain .
Our dependency on carbon @-@ emitting fuels is more than enormous .
It is overwhelming .
For all the talk about solar , wind , and other hyped green @-@ energy sources , they make up only 0.6 % of global energy consumption .
Renewable energy overwhelmingly comes from often @-@ unsustainable burning of wood and biomass by people in the Third World .
Fossil fuels account for more than four @-@ fifths of the world &apos;s energy diet .
So , in order to cut global carbon emissions in half by the middle of the century , we would obviously have to start getting a lot more of our energy from sources that don &apos;t emit carbon .
Can we do this ?
According to the International Energy Agency , here &apos;s what it would take to achieve the goal of cutting emissions by 50 % between now and mid @-@ century :
30 new nuclear plants ; 17,000 windmills ; 400 biomass power plants ; Two hydroelectric facilities the size of China &apos;s massive Three Gorges Dam ; and42 coal and gas power plants with yet @-@ to @-@ be @-@ developed carbon @-@ capture technology.Now consider this : this list does not describe what we would have to build between now and 2050 , but what we would have to build each and every year until then !
One more thing : even if we managed to do all this ( which we obviously cannot ) , the impact on global temperatures would be hardly noticeable by 2050 .
According to the best @-@ known climate @-@ economic model , this vast undertaking would likely wind up reducing global temperatures by just one @-@ tenth of one degree centigrade ( one @-@ fifth of one degree Fahrenheit ) , while holding back sea @-@ level rises by only one centimeter ( less than half an inch ) .
That &apos;s not a lot of bang for the buck .
Indeed , the projected costs of this approach - some $ 5 trillion annually by mid @-@ century - are so much greater than its likely benefits that it makes no sense to call it a solution at all .
Fortunately , there is a better , smarter way to deal with global warming . What if , instead of spending trillions of dollars trying to build an impossible number of power plants - or , more likely , condemning billions of people around the world to continued poverty by trying to make carbon @-@ emitting fuels too expensive to use - we devoted ourselves to making green energy cheaper ?
Right now , solar panels are so expensive - about 10 times more than fossil fuels in terms of cost per unit of energy output - that only well @-@ heeled , well @-@ meaning ( and , usually , well @-@ subsidized ) Westerners can afford to install them .
But think where we &apos;d be if we could improve the efficiency of solar cells by a factor of ten - in other words , if we could make them cheaper than fossil fuels .
We wouldn &apos;t have to force ( or subsidize ) anyone to stop burning coal and oil .
Everyone , including the Chinese and the Indians , would shift to the cheaper and cleaner alternatives - and global emission targets would automatically be met .
Can we achieve this technological miracle over the next 20 to 40 years ?
In a word , yes .
The price of solar energy has been dropping steadily for 30 years - by about 50 % every decade - and we could likely accelerate that decline further with sufficiently large investments in research and development .
How large ?
If we were willing to devote just 0.2 % of global GDP ( roughly $ 100 billion a year ) to green @-@ energy R &amp; amp ; D , I believe that we could bring about game @-@ changing breakthroughs not just for solar power , but also for a wide variety of other alternative @-@ energy technologies .
This belief in the potential of technological progress strikes some climate activists as naïve or even delusional .
But is it really ?
Consider one of the miracles of the modern age - the personal computer .
These devices didn &apos;t become household items because governments subsidized purchases or forced up the price of typewriters and slide rules .
No , what happened is that , largely as a result of the space race , the United States government poured lots of money into R &amp; amp ; D for solid @-@ state physics and electronics engineering .
The resulting breakthroughs not only got Neil Armstrong to the moon in 1969 , but also made it possible for Apple to introduce the first Mac in 1976 and IBM to debut the first PC five years later .
We can do the same for clean energy .
Forget about subsidizing inefficient technologies or making fossil fuels too expensive to use .
Instead , let &apos;s fund the basic research that will make green energy too cheap and easy to resist .
Afghanistan &apos;s Customary Anguish
FARAH , AFGHANISTAN - When the problems riddling Afghan society are listed - violence , insecurity , corruption , religious fundamentalism - one dominating factor is usually left out : the influence of customary law .
In Afghanistan , there are three principal legal references : constitutional law , the Koran , and the system of customary law known as Farhang , the most dominant and strictest version of which is called Pashtunwali ( the way of the Pashtuns ) .
Originally an ancient honor code , Farhang ensures the dominance of the oldest male of any household , followed by married sons , unmarried sons , and grandsons , then wives ( with the youngest at the bottom ) .
Collective decisions are taken by patriarchs in councils called jirgas , where all have to be in agreement .
This agreement includes including collaborating or not with the Taliban , cooperating with the Coalition forces , accepting or refusing poppy eradication in a village .
Everything else is left to patriarchal discretion . Here , no one will intervene except to reinforce the application of the patriarch &apos;s rights - say , in stoning a supposedly wayward girl , or turning a blind eye to so @-@ called &quot; honor killings &quot; of women .
Every act of an Afghan male &apos;s life is integrated in a form of reciprocity , in which nothing is free .
Melmastia , the basic tenet of hospitality means &quot; I will give you shelter if you ask me to , even if you are a fugitive murderer ; but , in exchange , you fight my battles . &quot; This sense of customary obligation is why so many of President Hamid Karzai &apos;s cronies remain in place and Taliban leaders remain safe .
Women are excluded from collective decision @-@ making , as they are mere objects .
Girls are literally sold upon marriage ( the father is paid money for his daughter &apos;s labor and reproductive capacity ) and join their husband &apos;s household .
The younger the girl , the higher the price .
Marriage , especially in the provinces , is routinely consummated on pre @-@ pubescent bodies .
Yet women are precious in their own way .
A family &apos;s principal &quot; cultural capital &quot; is its honor , which is ensured by denying women any opportunity to highlight male failings and therefore tarnish clan respectability .
As a result , women must be strictly secluded and made invisible when in public , for they are personally responsible for the desire that they could ignite in schools , hospitals , parks , or markets .
The all @-@ covering burqa ensures sufficient anonymity to permit women a certain amount of freedom in public space .
Every female simultaneously carries her father &apos;s and her husband &apos;s honor , and will stoically submit to all forms of violence committed in its name .
This may mean dying in childbirth rather than risking the &quot; dishonor &quot; of giving birth in a public place , a hospital , in front of strangers .
Going to court is practically unheard of , as it would mean renouncing family practices .
From the male point of view , resorting to outside police or judicial intervention would signify an inability to fight one &apos;s own battles - an admission of defeat and a symbolic castration .
This helps explain the intense corruption present in Afghan courts , where &quot; honor &quot; can be redeemed by bribing a judge to have a rapist or murderer released . As violence is strictly a private matter , relinquishing justice to state institutions could be an unacceptable humiliation .
Customary law is not rigid in that it is made to fit round the demands of global economy .
It has become more rigorous in it s applications due to the influence of
For example , while the Koran allows for a measure of female inheritance , tribal custom does not authorize it , which explains the popularity of tribal councils to resolve inheritance problems and cheat women out of their rights .
Similarly , whereas the Koran requires four eyewitnesses as proof of adultery , mere suspicion of some unregulated , potentially sexual conduct by a woman warrants stoning under customary law .
Yet an awareness of alternatives is seeping in through the media , even in remote provinces .
Iranian films and the much loved Indian TV serials , not to mention the occasional American film , influence peoples &apos; expectations .
Add to that the experience of having lived abroad as refugees in Pakistan and Iran .
Girls know that there are options to an unacceptable way of life : women are increasingly demanding more from life than what custom ordains .
This is especially true for those who have lived in Iran , a totally Muslim environment that allows women the freedom to study and work as well as access to adequate healthcare and family planning .
Once back in rural Afghanistan , forced into brutal marriages , many desperate women - especially returnees from Iran - resort to self @-@ immolation .
Violence and murder of women are on the increase , perpetrated by men who feel that these alternatives pose a threat to their authority .
The West imagines that religion is the central issue in Afghanistan .
But the heart of the matter is the preservation of ancient patriarchal rights that go back to Biblical times , reformatted to fit the demands of globalized capitalism .
Governments and international aid organizations have failed to take into consideration the role of
Afghanistan &apos;s Drug @-@ Friendly Environment
Afghanistan &apos;s President Hamid Karzai has stepped up international fundraising efforts in recent weeks , seeking a fresh package of military and reconstruction aid from the United States , together with stronger strategic guarantees .
But Karzai &apos;s relationship with his sponsors has begun to sour , in part owing to charges that his government has failed to stop the resurgence of Afghanistan &apos;s huge opium trade .
Underlying the opium trade issue is a security threat of another kind , one overlooked since the US @-@ led invasion toppled the Taliban regime in 2001 , despite the grave risk it poses to Afghanistan &apos;s long @-@ term stability , and that of the region .
In countries like Afghanistan , where 80 % of the population lives on what they grow and many communities live far from any water source , environmental damage can be both economically devastating and politically momentous .
That lesson should have been absorbed and understood , not least by American strategists , long before the Taliban &apos;s fall .
After all , desertification and deforestation helped fuel the rise , two decades earlier , of the Maoist guerilla group Sendero Luminoso ( Shining Path ) in Peru .
Sendero , which supplemented its income with drug production and timber smuggling , deliberately chose drought @-@ weakened and deforested mountain villages as the stronghold of its insurgency .
Similarly , the Maoist insurgency in Nepal , which has claimed 10,000 lives , exploits the desperation of mountain villagers hit by flash floods - the result of deforestation higher up .
No Maoist group could ever gain a toehold in Afghanistan &apos;s parched Pashtun south ( these were , after all , people who , bare @-@ knuckled , smashed the Soviets ) .
But the Taliban &apos;s rapid rise in the 1990 &quot; s was inextricably linked to the failure of irrigation systems .
Villagers whose crops shriveled and whose livestock died in a prolonged drought saw joining the Taliban as an economic opportunity .
Had there been more irrigation , the Taliban &apos;s gains might have been far less impressive .
The Taliban are now an increasingly spent force , but lack of water reinforced the logic of opium production across its former strongholds in the south .
Irrigation has failed or is inadequate in Helmand , Uruzgan , and Kandahar - three of the top five opium @-@ producing provinces - where indebted farmers are hooked by the economics : opium brings in eight times as much cash as wheat and uses less water .
Without serious investment in irrigation , including construction of reservoirs to make use of the snowfall in the Hindu Kush , and in new cash crops such as saffron and rose oil , Afghanistan &apos;s drift toward narco @-@ statehood will continue , with all the instability that this implies .
Clear @-@ cutting of old growth forests in the mountains bordering Pakistan may prove as problematic .
Agriculture there has been damaged by the cutting of walnut , apricot , and mulberry trees for winter fuel , and by a failure to replant poplar , willow , and tamarisk - the trees that hold fragile meadows in place .
These sorts of trees can be restored , given a concerted campaign and investment in nurseries to produce local varieties .
Loss of the ancient cedar , pine , fir , and oak forests on the slopes above is another matter .
This year &apos;s snowmelt caused landslides and flooding - a warning of more soil erosion and destruction of arable land to come ; hundreds died and thousands lost their livelihoods .
Forestry has always been a problem in Afghanistan .
In 1960 , the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization spoke of wasteful logging practices , such as &quot; head @-@ skidding &quot; ( in which a log is rolled downhill , ripping up plants and soil ) .
Aerial photographers were called in , and a large budget was set aside .
But , in 1976 , the FAO admitted in a new plan that forest and watershed management activities had &quot; turned out to be quite limited . &quot;
The 1976 plan called for sustainable logging and basic forest @-@ fire control , but war intervened , costing Afghanistan half its forest cover .
Up to 60 % of the old growth forest in Nangahar , the second largest opium @-@ producing province , may have been cut during the war years .
Mujahedin factions and later the Taliban exported stands of fine @-@ grained cedar by the truckload from Nangahar and surrounding provinces to Pakistan , often in return for arms .
Illegal logging continues today , with only ineffectual efforts made to stop it .
At the current rate , Afghanistan &apos;s old growth forest could vanish within a decade .
The UN acknowledges the problem but is ( rightly ) unwilling to risk sending forestry experts into a tribal region where American and allied troops venture only in armored convoys .
Safety concerns and cost also limit intervention by international conservation organizations .
A new initiative called the Green Corps includes 300 forest rangers charged with stopping illegal logging , and the ministry hopes to boost their numbers within a year .
But the initiative is unlikely to have much effect .
Illegal logging crews number 200 or more .
They have chain saws and trucks .
They are armed and work with the backing of drug and emerald smugglers - and often of local officials .
The price of plank cedar in Lahore is incentive enough to corrupt , or kill , any Green Corps men brave enough to stand in their way .
Environmental issues are of paramount importance in marginal countries because their impact on human survival is immediate and direct .
The inadequate response to pressing questions of natural resource management , whether of water or trees , merely strengthens the hands of opium dealers and malcontents in what is already the most disaffected and sensitive part of Afghanistan - the clear @-@ cut mountain slopes where intelligence officers believe Osama bin Laden is most likely holed up .
Afghanistan &apos;s Dying Mothers
Roughly 75 % of Afghan newborns that die do so because of lack of food , warmth , and care .
Unloved little girls fare the worst .
In Afghanistan as a whole , a woman dies of pregnancy @-@ related causes every 27 minutes - and perhaps even more frequently , because many such deaths go unrecorded .
Many , perhaps most , are under sixteen years of age .
The Taliban - blamed nowadays for just about all of Afghanistan &apos;s ills - have officially been gone for nearly seven years , so why are conditions still so abysmal ?
In Kabul and Herat , mobile phones abound , a tooth @-@ eroding concoction called &quot; Afghan Cola &quot; is sold , the Internet works ( sometimes ) , there are ATM machines , sophisticated heroin laboratories , four @-@ wheel drive vehicles , five @-@ star hotels , ads for private banks - all the trappings of globalized modernity .
Yet so many women die like flies , in pools of blood and deep @-@ rooted indifference .
While billions of dollars in aid have led to improvements in urban areas , where health facilities have been built and midwives trained , the overall maternal death figures have hardly changed .
As one doctor told me : &quot; A competent midwife or nurse would rather be out of work in Kabul than stuck in a remote village . &quot; But most Afghans live in remote villages - those in Badakhshan can be reached only after a day &apos;s bumpy ride on a donkey .
This miserable situation has been attributed to various causes , mainly lack of infrastructure and local economic conditions .
But cultural questions must also be addressed , because gender discrimination is the most important cause of maternal mortality .
In Afghan society , discrimination begins at birth .
One obvious reason is that a boy is destined to support his parents and much of his family all his life , and therefore represents a long @-@ term investment , whereas a girl will be given over to her husband &apos;s family as soon as possible .
Feeding a girl is seen as effectively looking after someone else &apos;s property .
Once , I heard a dreadful story of a breech birth which a traditional midwife did not know how to handle .
In the end , she wrenched the baby &apos;s body out , severing it from its head , which remained inside the mother &apos;s womb .
It took six days to get the woman to a hospital in Jalalabad though it was not very far from where she lived .
She somehow survived , with major health complications , including permanent fistula , which will condemn her to a life of exclusion from her family and unrelieved misery .
That tragedy can be read on many levels , each more heart @-@ rending than the next .
But note that it occurred near a health facility .
As soon as the midwife saw that the baby was coming out feet forward , she must have known that there was little she could do to save either mother or baby .
Even before that , she would have noticed that the child had not turned properly , and that major problems were on the way .
This means that someone - a husband or mother @-@ in @-@ law - had taken the decision not to send the young woman to the hospital , instead keeping her in inhuman suffering for nearly a week .
The solution is not just to build more hospitals , but also to change deep @-@ rooted disdain for women .
And , sadly , things have become worse in the past 30 years , as Afghanistan &apos;s particular brand of Islam , combined with its legacy of dire poverty and war , compounds an already misogynist pre @-@ Islamic tradition .
Maternal mortality is a sinister consequence of this complex situation .
The legal system , schools , and the media could bring change , but no official entity takes the problem seriously enough to initiate effective action .
The central reason is despairingly simple : women &apos;s lives are not valued , and even women themselves perceive their suffering as being unavoidable .
What Afghanistan needs is an inquest after each death and laws making it a criminal offense to forbid access to medical aid , when available , to women and children ( or , more correctly , to children and their children , given that girls are often married by age 14 ) .
Prisons , I fear , would be full of abusive husbands and , I regret to say , vengeful mothers @-@ in @-@ law .
Health education through public media , reaching distant areas of the country , is an urgent priority , but has been utterly ignored in favor of commercial priorities .
Questioning culture is , of course , a politically incorrect approach .
But we must refuse to bow before the altar of tolerance when it comes to what is truly unacceptable , wherever it occurs , and this is what the world is witnessing passively in Afghanistan .
Does diversity authorize such brutal deaths and senseless violence against women simply because some supposedly traditional practice allows them to be married before their bodies are ready and denies them health care when they give birth ?
The fight against maternal mortality in Afghanistan must become a global priority .
Ultimately , a society that allows women to be brutalized will remain a breeding ground of generalized violence .
Afghanistan &apos;s Feminist Revolution
On April 16 , more than 300 Afghani women - many of them students - marched together in Kabul in protest of a new law passed by Parliament that would impose a series of Taliban @-@ like restrictions on women .
The law would permit marital rape , limit women &apos;s movements - say , for work or study - without male permission , and even make it illegal for a woman to refuse to dress as her husband wishes .
The women , facing a crowd of furious men calling them &quot; whores &quot; and other epithets , marched two miles under a rain of abuse and delivered their petition against the law to legislators .
Both houses of Parliament had approved the law , and President Hamid Karzai signed it .
The law now affects only the Shia minority , but threatens to affect pending legislation that could restrict the rights of non @-@ Shia women as well .
When Western media sought quotes from the women , they frequently heard a Western @-@ style feminist refrain : &quot; These laws would make women into a kind of property . &quot;
In the West , the counterpoint to the notion of woman as property has been a highly individualistic demand for personal autonomy - decision @-@ making based primarily on a woman &apos;s own wishes , rather than as wife , mother , community member , or worshipper .
But , while some Western feminist insights may be useful to Afghani women and other women in the developing world as they resist certain forms of male oppression , we should not assume - as Western feminists often have - that our job is to proselytize &quot; our &quot; feminism .
On the contrary , the feminism expressed by women such as these Afghani heroines should educate us in the West about our own shortcomings .
The core theory with which emerging feminists in more traditional and religious societies are working is far different from that of Western feminism - and in some ways far more profound and humane .
In India , for example , feminists articulated to me a vision of women &apos;s equality that was family @-@ centered rather than self @-@ centered , and that valued service to community rather than personal gratification .
They did not see their struggle as a cultural or ideological clash between men and women , but rather as a very practical effort to live free from violence and sexual assault , forced child marriage and bride @-@ burning , and legal exclusion from parity .
The emerging consensus in India in support of greater rights and freedoms for women , while certainly causing some upheaval and adjustment ( especially within the growing middle classes ) has not yet - and might never - poison the basic trust and warmth between men and women .
Nor does it seem likely to emulate the splintered , individualized , solitary society - and the commodified sexual revolution - that Western , self @-@ based feminism reflects .
This version of feminism - the notion that women can claim equality and still have a valued role in the home , prize family above all , and view rights in the context of community and spirituality - seems like a much @-@ needed corrective to some of Western feminism &apos;s shortcomings .
Ideally , men &apos;s drive for progress in the developing world would also evolve , uniting the idea of the autonomous self with support for family , community , and other ties , and Western men would learn from this as well .
Moreover , intellectually , these women remind us that Western feminism did not have to evolve the way it did , and can still change and grow to embrace a more satisfying and humane definition of equality .
Simone de Beauvoir , whose seminal book
The good news for all women , East and West , is that President Karzai , under intense international criticism - and not just Western criticism - changed the law less than one week after the march .
This global uproar is a testament to how three decades of Western feminist challenges to leadership have changed the world for the better .
But our ( Western ) moment of feminist leadership is over now - for good reasons .
We know by now what our problems are as women in the West , and we know the blueprint for solving them .
What we lack now is not analysis , but the organizational and political will to do so .
So the leadership role is shifting to women in the developing world .
Their agenda is more pressing , and their problems , frankly , far more serious than ours , which makes it much more urgent for them to develop theories appropriate to the challenges they face .
If one of those courageous Afghan women who marched in Kabul wrote - as I hope she or one of her sisters in the developing world is doing right now - the seminal text for the next 50 years on non @-@ Western feminism , it would no doubt be equality @-@ driven and practical .
And perhaps , in its likely view of the world as being more than the sum of consuming , competing autonomies , or gender warfare , it would be a valuable challenge to truisms that we Western feminists - and the men who love us - have thought we had to take for granted .
Afghanistan &apos;s Opium War
When NATO leaders meet for their summit in Riga at the end of this month , there will be a ghost at the feast : Afghanistan &apos;s opium .
Afghanistan is in danger of falling back into the hands of terrorists , insurgents , and criminals , and the multi @-@ billion @-@ dollar opium trade is at the heart of the country &apos;s malaise .
Indeed , NATO &apos;s top general , James Jones , has called drugs the &quot; Achilles heel &quot; of Afghanistan .
This year &apos;s record harvest of 6,100 tons of opium will generate more than $ 3 billion in illicit revenue - equivalent to almost half of Afghanistan &apos;s GDP .
Profits for drug traffickers downstream will be almost 20 times that amount .
Opium money is corrupting Afghan society from top to bottom .
High @-@ level collusion enables thousands of tons of chemical precursors , needed to produce heroin , to be trucked into the country .
Armed convoys transport raw opium around the country unhindered .
Sometimes even army and police vehicles are involved .
Guns and bribes ensure that the trucks are waved through checkpoints .
Opiates flow freely across borders into Iran , Pakistan , and other Central Asian countries .
The opium fields of wealthy landowners are untouched , because local officials are paid off .
Major traffickers never come to trial because judges are bribed or intimidated .
Senior government officials take their cut of opium revenues or bribes in return for keeping quiet .
Perversely , some provincial governors and government officials are themselves major players in the drug trade .
As a result , the Afghan state is at risk of takeover by a malign coalition of extremists , criminals , and opportunists .
Opium is choking Afghan society .
Within Afghanistan , drug addiction is rising .
Neighbors that used to be transit states for drugs are now major consumers , owing to similar dramatic increases in opium and heroin addiction .
Intravenous drug use is spreading HIV / AIDS in Iran , Central Asia , and the former Soviet Union .
In traditional Western European markets , health officials should brace for a rise in the number of deaths from drug overdoses , as this year &apos;s bumper opium crop will lead to higher @-@ purity doses of heroin .
What can be done ?
First , the veil of corruption in Afghanistan must be lifted .
Afghans are fed up with arrogant and well @-@ armed tycoons who live in mansions and drive top @-@ of @-@ the range Mercedes limousines - this in a country where barely 13 % of the population have electricity and most people must survive on less than $ 200 a year .
It is time for the Afghan government to name , shame , and sack corrupt officials , arrest major drug traffickers and opium landlords , and seize their assets .
Donors have trained police and prosecutors and built courts and detention centers .
Now it is up to the government to use the judicial system to impose the rule of law .
It will be difficult , but not impossible , to re @-@ establish confidence in the central government .
Putting major drug traffickers behind bars at the new maximum @-@ security prison at Pul @-@ i @-@ Charki , near Kabul , would be a good start .
Of course , Afghanistan does not bear sole responsibility for its plight .
The heroin trade would not be booming if Western governments were serious about combating drug consumption .
It is a bitter irony that the countries whose soldiers &quot; lives are on the line in Afghanistan are also the biggest markets for Afghan heroin .
Furthermore , Afghanistan &apos;s neighbors must do more to stop insurgents , weapons , money , and chemical precursors from flowing across their borders into the country .
Coalition forces should take a more robust approach to the drug problem .
Counter @-@ insurgency and counter @-@ narcotics are two sides of the same coin .
Improving security and the rule of law must include destroying the opium trade .
Allowing opium traffickers to operate with impunity gives them a free hand to raise money to pay for the arms and fighters battling the Afghan army and NATO forces .
The United Nations Security Council has authorized the International Security Assistance Force to take all necessary measures to fulfill its mandate .
NATO troops should be given the green light to help the Afghan army fight opium - destroy the heroin labs , disband the opium bazaars , attack the opium convoys , and bring the big traders to justice .
And they should be given the tools and manpower to do the job .
There is no point in trying to win the hearts and minds of major drug traffickers .
Farmers are a different story .
Forced eradication risks pushing farmers into the hands of extremists , and thus will not lead to the sustainable reduction of opium fields .
Indeed , as we have seen in some Andean countries , it can be counter @-@ productive .
Therefore , security and development must go hand in hand .
To achieve this , Afghanistan needs more development assistance .
International support so far has been generous , but it is still well below per capita equivalents for other post @-@ conflict situations - and the need is much greater .
Farmers will be weaned off opium over the long term only if they have sustainable livelihoods .
At the moment , Afghanistan &apos;s drug lords are prospering , and rural communities are suffering .
That situation needs to be reversed .
We must punish the traffickers and reward the farmers .
We cannot afford to fail in Afghanistan .
Recent history has given us graphic evidence of what would happen if we do .
But any solution in Afghanistan depends on eliminating its opium .
Afghanistan &apos;s Terrorized Women
KABUL - Recently , the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission ( AIHRC ) office in Kudoz province reported the rescue of a young woman who had been imprisoned in her in @-@ laws &quot; dungeon for seven months .
Fifteen @-@ year @-@ old Sahar Gul was forced to marry an older man who serves in the Afghan army .
She was then kept in the dungeon by her husband &apos;s family and brutally tortured for months , because she refused to work as a prostitute .
Over the past ten years , the AIHRC has received more than 19,000 complaints related to violence against women .
Despite making some progress in investigating the complaints and referring them to the justice system , as well as in raising public awareness about the issue , the challenges remain huge .
Since 2002 , many efforts have been made to improve women &apos;s lives in Afghanistan .
The country has enacted several new laws and established a fairly advanced legal framework to end discrimination against women , including a new law that criminalizes any act that results in violence against women .
But laws and policies alone are not sufficient to protect women from horrific domestic abuse .
Indeed , the Gul case is hardly the only well @-@ publicized case .
There was also Gulnaz , a young woman who was jailed for adultery after being raped by a relative ( she was recently released after a presidential pardon , but may be forced to marry her attacker ) .
The husband of another young woman , Aisha , cut off her nose and ears when she ran away .
Violence against women in Afghanistan persists for many reasons .
First , the country has inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that assumes women &apos;s inferiority .
Women are therefore deprived of their basic rights and freedoms .
Second , there is a strong political incentive to deprive women of their rights .
Radical groups receive immense support from the large share of the population that opposes women &apos;s rights .
The Taliban , for example , have consistently used an anti @-@ women policy to appeal to tribal and rural people .
Third , family pride and honor are deemed more important than a woman &apos;s individual well @-@ being and safety .
For example , if family members beat or abuse a woman , she has few options .
Often , her only choice is to remain silent or risk disgracing the family .
If she does report the matter to the authorities , the case will almost certainly never be properly investigated , nor the perpetrators ever prosecuted .
Gul , for example , complained to the police about her abusive in @-@ laws , but she was returned to the family when some of their influential contacts intervened .
Fourth , laws are often arbitrarily applied , and sharia ( Islamic law ) frequently takes precedence over civil legislation , resulting in widespread impunity for crimes of violence against women .
For example , in October 2010 , the Afghan Supreme Court ruled that women who run away from home can be charged with prostitution , unless they go to the police or an immediate relative &apos;s home . &amp; # 160 ; It is this mindset that led to Gul &apos;s victimization .
Finally , while the Taliban lost power ten years ago , discrimination and violence against women has occurred in Afghan society for centuries .
Thus , despite some progress , public and official sensitivity to violence against women is only slowly emerging .
The Afghan government must take several steps to protect women fully .
Above all , perpetrators of violence against women should be prosecuted and tried under due process of law .
This will require strengthening the rule of law and ending the prevailing culture of impunity .
That , in turn , requires educating the public further about human rights and women &apos;s rights through school textbooks , continuing education courses , and a vigorous media campaign .
It also requires persuading representatives and policymakers to develop policies and allocate budget revenues to combat violence against women , and training police and judges to handle cases of violence against women without deferring to claims of family honor .
Perhaps most importantly , non @-@ constitutional justice systems , such as sharia , must be monitored and checked , if not prohibited altogether .
As for Sahar Gul , her case must be thoroughly investigated , and the police and judiciary must commit to bringing her torturers to justice .
Furthermore , Gul &apos;s case , and others like it , should be studied in order to understand the roots of such crimes .
Until Afghanistan &apos;s leaders begin to address this problem seriously , our country will continue to bear the scar of violence against women on its face .
Africa , Climate Change , and the G @-@ 8 Summit
British Prime Minister Tony Blair has declared that the two issues at the center of the G @-@ 8 Summit this July will be African poverty and global climate change .
These may seem to be distinct issues .
In fact , they are linked .
A trip I took to a village in the Tigre region in northern Ethiopia shows why .
One morning , I was taken to a dry riverbed at the village &apos;s edge .
Farmers were digging a pit in the riverbed , down to the water table approximately two meters below ground level .
They explained that until recently this was a perennial river - one that flows throughout the year - but now the river stops flowing during the dry season .
Only when the annual rains begin in the summer does water reappear in the river bed .
Until then , water @-@ starved communities dig for water , if they can find it and if they can afford to pump it out .
In northern Ethiopia , as in much of Africa , the rain cycle has changed markedly in recent years .
Ethiopian village life has long depended on two crops , one during a short rain in March and April , and the main crop during the long rain in the summer months .
In recent years , the short rains have failed entirely , and long rains have been erratic .
Hunger is omnipresent .
Perhaps half of the children are severely underweight .
Much of arid sub @-@ Saharan Africa , notably in the Sahel ( the region just south of the Sahara desert ) , has experienced a pronounced drop in rainfall over the past quarter @-@ century .
This decline coincided with a rise in the surface temperature of the neighboring Indian Ocean , a hint that the decline in rainfall is in fact part of the longer @-@ term process of man @-@ made global warming .
Failures of rainfall contribute not only to famines and chronic hunger , but also to the onset of violence when hungry people clash over scarce food and water .
When violence erupts in water @-@ starved regions such as Darfur , Sudan , political leaders tend to view the problems in narrow political terms .
If they act at all , they mobilize peacekeepers , international sanctions , and humanitarian aid .
But Darfur , like Tigre , needs a development strategy to fight hunger and drought even more than it needs peacekeepers .
Soldiers cannot keep peace among desperately hungry people .
One course of action must be to help impoverished African regions to &quot; adapt &quot; to climate change and to escape the poverty trap .
Water @-@ stressed regions like Ethiopia and Sudan can adapt , at least in part , through improved technologies such as &quot; drip irrigation , &quot; rainwater harvesting , improved water storage facilities , deep wells , and agro @-@ forestry techniques that make best use of scarce rainfall .
Better land @-@ management practices ( the re @-@ planting of degraded forests , for example ) can recharge underground water aquifers .
Poor countries cannot afford these technologies on their own .
Nor should they have to .
Help for poor countries in Africa and elsewhere to adapt to climate change should not be described as charity or aid , but rather as compensation for damages being imposed on the poorest people on the planet .
Greater help for these countries to escape from extreme poverty has been promised for decades but has not been delivered .
In addition to adapting to climate change , the world must also reduce future risks to the planet by cutting back on emissions of greenhouse gases , which are the source of man @-@ made climate change .
While adaptation to climate change is necessary - because it is already occurring - this is not enough .
If the world fails to mitigate future climate change , the effects of rising temperatures , increasing droughts , more numerous and severe tropical storms , rising sea levels , and a spread of tropical diseases will pose huge threats to the entire planet .
The famines in Ethiopia and the violence in Darfur suggest what can lie ahead .
The best way to reduce long @-@ term climate change is to reduce carbon emissions .
There are at least three options : shift to non @-@ carbon energy sources such as solar or nuclear energy ; capture and dispose of the carbon dioxide emitted at carbon @-@ based power plants ; economize on energy use , for example by shifting to hybrid automobiles and trucks .
Most likely , all three of these methods will have to play a role .
The effort to reduce greenhouse gases will require decades of action , but , given the long lead times in overhauling the world &apos;s energy systems , we must start now .
Rich countries need to lead the way .
It is ironic that the United States , which portrays itself as a friend of democracy and impoverished countries , gives the smallest share of its GNP in aid among the rich countries , and also refuses to participate in global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions .
This is especially ironic because African countries like Ethiopia stand steadfastly and bravely with the US in the fight for freedom and against terrorism , even as they struggle with hunger , disease , and famine .
Moreover , countries like Ethiopia are making valiant , indeed remarkable , efforts to overcome their problems , despite the lack of adequate , and long @-@ promised , help from the world &apos;s richest countries .
Africans suffering from hunger and drought , and indeed poor people everywhere , have a right to ask much more of the US and other rich countries .
Tony Blair is right to call on his rich @-@ country colleagues to follow through on their unfulfilled promises .
Africa at Risk
ADDIS ABABA - Climate change will hit Africa - a continent that has contributed virtually nothing to bring it about - first and hardest .
Aside from Antarctica , Africa is the only continent that has not industrialized .
Indeed , since 1980 &quot; s the industrialization that had taken place in Africa has by and large been reversed .
Africa has thus contributed nothing to the historical accumulation of greenhouse gases through carbon @-@ based industrialization .
Moreover , its current contribution is also negligible , practically all of it coming from deforestation and degradation of forests and farmland .
Yet climate change will hit Africa hardest , because it will cripple the continent &apos;s vulnerable agricultural sector , on which 70 % of the population depends .
All estimates of the possible impact of global warming suggest that a large part of the continent will become drier , and that the continent as a whole will experience greater climatic variability .
We know what the impact of periodic droughts have been on the lives of tens of millions of Africans .
We can therefore imagine what the impact of a drier climate on agriculture is likely to be .
Conditions in this vital economic sector will become even more precarious than they currently are .
Africa will not only be hit hardest , but it will be hit first .
Indeed , the long dreaded impact of climate change is already upon us .
The current drought covering much of East Africa - far more severe than past droughts - has been directly associated with climate change .
The upcoming climate negotiations ought to address the specific problems of Africa and similarly vulnerable poor parts of the world .
This requires , first and most importantly , reducing global warming to the apparently inevitable increase of two degrees Celsius , beyond which lies an environmental catastrophe that could be unmanageable for poor and vulnerable countries .
Second , adequate resources should be made available to poor and vulnerable regions and countries to enable them to adapt to climate change .
Climate change , which was largely brought about by the activities of developed countries , has made it difficult for poor and vulnerable countries to fight poverty .
It has created a more hostile environment for development .
No amount of money will undo the damage done .
But adequate investment in mitigating the damage could partly resolve the problem .
Developed countries are thus morally obliged to pay partial compensation to poor and vulnerable countries and regions to cover part of the cost of the investments needed to adapt to climate change .
Various estimates have been made of the scale of investment required by those countries .
One conservative estimate - which has a reasonable chance of being accepted precisely because it is conservative - calls for $ 50 billion per year as of 2015 , increasing to $ 100 billion by 2020 and beyond .
A transitional financing arrangement would be put in place for the period 2010 @-@ 2015 .
Some argue that developed countries cannot come up with such sums , particularly given their current economic challenges .
But no one has so far argued that the cost of damage caused to the development prospects of poor countries and regions is less than the amount of compensation being offered to cover adjustment costs .
The reason is obvious : the damage caused is many times higher than the compensation being requested .
Nonetheless , it is argued , whatever the real cost of the damage , developed countries currently cannot afford to provide that kind of money .
But we all know that these countries and their national banks were able to spend trillions of dollars in a few months to bail out their bankers , who earned super @-@ profits when the going was good .
When the good times ended , taxpayers and governments were prepared to rescue them and to ensure that they continued to receive their extraordinary bonuses .
If the developed world is able to pay trillions of dollars to clean up its bankers &quot; mess , how is it possible that it cannot afford to pay billions of dollars to clean up a mess that it created , and that is threatening the survival of whole continents ?
Clearly this is not about the availability of resources .
It is about the inappropriate priorities in how resources are allocated .
It is about moral values that make it appropriate to rescue bankers , who expect everyone but themselves to pay for the mess they created , and inappropriate to compensate the world &apos;s poorest people , whose survival is threatened precisely because of the mess created by developed countries .
I cannot believe that people in developed counties , when informed about the issues , would support rescuing bankers and oppose partial compensation for poor countries and regions .
I cannot believe that they will let such an injustice occur .
If they are not expressing their outrage over the injustice of it all , it can only be because they are inadequately informed .
Africa \ u0027s \
I visited Ghana recently and like many others left asking : how can a &quot; developing &quot; country be developed ?
But there was something troubling about this formulation , in particular with the word &quot; developing , &quot; which is often a euphemism for the absence of economic development .
Do countries stop developing because outsiders are so intent on developing them ?
My hosts , the Kweku Hutchful Foundation , invited me with a different question in mind : How can Ghanaian leaders be developed ?
Something troubled me about this formulation , too .
It was that word &quot; development &quot; again .
Do we really &quot; develop &quot; leaders or countries ?
Do multinational companies , international non @-@ governmental organizations , and multilateral lenders really understand local needs ?
Just because some &quot; best practice &quot; works in New York , does that mean it will work in Accra , Ghana ?
Imagine how American managers would react to consultants arriving from Ghana with their &quot; best practice &quot; : &quot; It worked in Accra , so it is bound to work in New York ! &quot;
Of course , there is a prominent example of just that : Kofi Annan , under whose stewardship the UN has undergone a remarkable improvement .
Annan spent most of his career outside of Ghana , and had some of his higher education in the US .
But , as one of Annan &apos;s advisors once put it , he &quot; runs the UN like an old @-@ fashioned African village , with long discussions among the elders , periods of reflection , and eventually a decision . &quot;
Of course , Annan can hardly control the UN by imposing great strategies on everyone else , as American corporate CEOs do .
But perhaps he knows better .
Unlike most American CEOs , Annan was not parachuted in from outside ; he is the first career employee to lead the UN .
So he knew what was wrong and appreciated that it had to be fixed carefully and patiently , by engaging the staff rather than intimidating them .
His re @-@ election to a second term as UN Secretary General was supported by nations all over the world , rich and poor , as well as by UN employees .
Was Kofi Annan &quot; developed ? &quot;
Perhaps we don &apos;t develop leaders so much as foster the conditions that bring out leadership .
If so , then a key condition must be the self @-@ respect that comes from working things out for ourselves , individually and collectively .
This self @-@ respect is fostered by organizations and institutions that can likewise stand on their own feet , building on the best of their own cultural traditions .
Passive importation of techniques , controls , and beliefs , via agencies and experts that run around solving everyone else &apos;s problems , may be the biggest impediment to development--just another form of outside exploitation , of which Africa has had more than enough .
Is it not time for indigenous development , of countries and leaders alike ?
One thing is clear .
Countries like Ghana do not lack enterprise .
Markets and personal initiative are pervasive .
At a red light in New York , a squeegee kid or two might approach your car ; in Accra , a stopped car is immediately surrounded by a virtual supermarket .
What Ghana and most of Africa lacks is not enterprise , but
Instead , foreign corporations , with their funds , controls , and experts--and , just as importantly , their beliefs--dominate larger enterprise .
To be sure , foreign corporations can do good things : bring in fresh ideas , techniques , and processes , as well as capital and the scale required in some contemporary forms of manufacturing .
But nothing they do--aside from cosmetic modifications to consumer products and marketing tactics--responds to local conditions .
Development as now practiced often fails because it does not build on a country &apos;s unique strengths , respect its social traditions , or foster the autonomy necessary to develop indigenous leaders and enterprises .
All too often , it is
Pride , dignity , and self @-@ confidence do not figure in economic theory : they cannot be measured .
But they figure prominently in just about every story of success , whether of countries or of leaders .
How people feel about themselves , personally and collectively , greatly influences the energy with which they develop themselves .
America , for example , did not develop by depending on an imposed ideology or outside experts .
It developed through the indigenous efforts of Americans acting in their own way--assisted by extensive state intervention , through land grants to farmers , railroads , and mining companies , military spending that stimulated the economy ( and still does ) , and , of course , tariff barriers .
Likewise , indigenous development played a key role in Japan and Germany after WWII , in South Korea more recently , and the UK long before .
In fact , has
Globalization must not be allowed to blind us .
Ghana certainly needs to develop economically , because material wealth is required to improve health , provide education , and sustain democracy .
But the reverse is also true : a deep @-@ rooted sense of democracy--precisely what globalization lacks--seems necessary to support economic efforts .
The ( economically ) developed West should consider importing that lesson .
Africa &apos;s Avoidable AIDS Crisis
NEW YORK - At Uganda &apos;s largest AIDS clinic , I recently witnessed a remarkable celebration of life .
The performers were a troupe of young African singers , drummers and dancers , ranging in age from roughly eight to 28 .
Rarely have I been so profoundly moved .
&amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &quot; This is a land , &quot; they sang ,
&amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &quot; Where beautiful people
&amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; Laugh and dance in harmony .
&amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; Africa .
O Africa . &quot;
And , indeed , these young people laughed and danced not only in harmony but with a joie de vivre that lit up their faces and filled us all with happiness .
Listening , it was hard to imagine that they could easily be dead - and would be , if not for this clinic .
Each of those splendid performers is living with HIV .
Some arrived at the clinic so ill that they could scarcely walk .
Others showed few symptoms but , having tested positive , came to be treated .
They were mothers and fathers , sisters and brothers , children and grandparents .
All were alive and healthy for one reason only : the Joint Clinical Research Center in Kampala , and the drugs that it provides them .
Uganda was the epicenter of the AIDS epidemic .
There the scourge began in earnest ; there ( as elsewhere in Africa ) it exacts its highest toll .
Yet Uganda is also a success story .
A decade ago , fewer than 10,000 people were taking the new generation of antiretroviral drugs that suppress the disease and offer the promise of a normal life .
Today , that figure is 200,000 , thanks in large measure to generous support from the United States ( under its PEPFAR program ) and the Global Fund in Geneva .
We have seen similarly encouraging progress elsewhere .
Botswana , among others , has invested heavily to offer universal treatment , and now is well on its way to ensuring that no baby is born with HIV - a reality in developed countries , but not so in Africa , where 400,000 children are born with the disease each year .
South Africa , with the largest number of people living with HIV , has spent nearly $ 1 billion over the past year in an ambitious counseling and testing campaign to roll back the epidemic .
But there is a new and growing danger that these advances might not be sustained .
Peter Mugyenyi , who runs the Joint Clinical Research Center , told me that part of the problem is the sheer weight of numbers .
In Uganda , only about half of those with HIV / AIDS are being treated .
Meanwhile , money for treatment is drying up .
Because of the global recession , some international donors are threatening to cap their financial support .
Countries such as Malawi , Zimbabwe , and Kenya , as well as Uganda , are requesting assistance for emergency drug supplies .
In Kampala , Dr. Mugyenyi has begun placing new patients on a waiting list .
As many as seven million Africans who should be getting treatment for HIV are not .
Worldwide , the number is about 10 million .
Compounding the problem : donors have also been shifting their focus from AIDS to other diseases , because there is a sense that more lives can be saved more cheaply .
At a time when we should be scaling up to meet the AIDS challenge , we are dialing back .
In our global war on AIDS , the international community is on the verge of snatching defeat from the jaws of victory .
Those who rallied to the fight are alarmed .
They fear that the impressive gains of the last decade will be lost . &quot; We are sitting on a time bomb , &quot; Dr. Mugyenyi told me .
Every day , he is forced into moral choices that no one should have to make .
How do you choose to treat a young girl but not her little brother ?
How do you turn away a pregnant mother , sitting with her children , crying for help ?
Surely we can do better .
In Kampala , I promised my young friends that I would do everything I could to help .
In Washington recently , the United Nations rolled out an action plan that should dramatically accelerate progress on maternal and child health , including HIV .
At the International AIDS Conference in Vienna , in July , I hope that the international community will rally around UNAIDS &quot; launch of Treatment 2.0 - the next generation of HIV treatment , which must be more affordable , more effective , and accessible to all .
As chair of this year &apos;s replenishment of the Global Fund , I urge all donors to see to it that countries such as Uganda get the support they need , so that Dr. Mugyenyi and other front @-@ line soldiers in the fight against AIDS need not make those difficult choices .
I left Uganda with a snatch of song that still echoes within my heart .
Its inherent truth would be obvious , had you been there to see : &amp; # 160 ;
&amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; We are still useful .
&amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; To our countries , to our families .
&amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; All we need is a way to live our days ,
&amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; &amp; # 160 ; All we need is to survive in Africa .
Yes , times are hard .
That is all the more reason to act out of compassion and with generosity .
Africa \ u0027s Debt Dilemma
The success that US President George W. Bush and his special envoy , former Secretary of State James Baker , had in getting Iraq &apos;s foreign debts canceled or rescheduled shows what can be done when a policy is backed by political will .
The contrast with Africa &apos;s debts could hardly be starker .
Just three years ago , Jubilee 2000 made news when civil society groups , rock stars , and a few finance ministers like Britain &apos;s Gordon Brown pushed for African debt cancellation .
President Bush mostly succeeded in his crusade ; Jubilee 2000 succeeded mostly in getting empty promises .
Of course , the two campaigns confronted different obstacles and had different bases of support .
Baker &apos;s mission possessed the unlimited backing of a US faced with the gargantuan cost of reconstructing Iraq ; Jubilee 2000 had only world opinion behind it .
Lucrative reconstruction contracts in Iraq gave America leverage to coerce its allies into submission ; Jubilee 2000 had no such weapon of persuasion .
Finally , Baker was appealing to America &apos;s traditional allies in Europe and the Middle East , who need American friendship in many areas .
The campaign to forgive Africa &apos;s debt was , on the other hand , focused on the crushing debt load owed by African countries to the IMF and the World Bank , who only have money to worry about .
Still , the Jubilee campaign &apos;s street protests began a healthy debate about the lending arrangements of the IMF / World Bank .
But the time has come to abandon the Jubilee movement &apos;s humanitarian approach and focus instead on the legal aspect .
It is worth remembering that no sub @-@ Saharan African country - with the exceptions of South Africa and Rhodesia ( now Zimbabwe ) , then administered by white minority governments - could tap international capital markets at independence in the early 1960 &apos;s .
Domestic capital markets were non @-@ existent .
As a result , these countries were left with no choice but to subcontract their development to the IMF and World Bank .
These institutions identified , appraised , approved , and financed projects that ratcheted up African debt .
They monitored and sanctioned the recruitment of consultants that conducted the studies related to these projects , as well as the expatriate staff involved in their execution .
During the period of implementation , they carried out regular supervisory missions supplemented by quarterly progress reports and annual audits .
Still , despite all these costly measures paid for by Africans , all the post @-@ evaluation reports on completed projects indicated that the overwhelming majority of projects were unable to generate the revenues needed to service the debts that financed them .
But the debtor countries are nonetheless obliged to service these debts by whatever means necessary , including more borrowing and further entanglement , leading to further impoverishment .
For example , per capita growth between 1965 and 1998
What went wrong ?
The multilateral lenders advocated a development strategy based on the theory of comparative advantage and unbridled economic liberalization .
Africa had to open its markets while producing raw materials and basic products to generate revenues for investment in industry , education , health , and food production .
These assumptions turned out to be wrong , as export prices fell steadily over four decades .
But it should have been obvious from the outset that the IMF / World Bank strategy was doomed to fail .
All developed nations protected and subsidized their domestic production in the first phases of their development - and still do whenever it suits them .
Furthermore the US , the EU member states and the East Asian countries all regulated inward foreign investment and imposed capital controls .
Partnerships with foreign companies were designed to allow local businesses to benefit from technology transfer and training , while creating the most favorable conditions for local producers to add value to domestic production and exports .
In the face of these undeniable facts , the path chosen by the IMF and the World Bank was , at best , a mark of their incompetence and , at worst , a deliberate ploy to keep the sub @-@ Saharan countries and their populations in bondage .
Whatever the case , both institutions certainly have much to answer for - and the loan agreements provide an arbitration clause to bring them to account .
These clauses have yet to be invoked , but for the sake of unity and to strengthen the solidarity of African countries , it would be advisable for the nascent African Union take the lead .
The AU should seek legal advice , have the issue included on the agenda of the UN General Assembly , advocate the freezing of international debt payments while arbitration proceedings are taking place and secure the support of the international community , especially NGOs that have a track record in raising awareness about Africa &apos;s debts .
Any compensation retrieved from such legal proceedings should be used to establish an African monetary fund whose objective would be to put Africa on a fast track to comprehensive regional integration , enabling the continent to capitalize on globalization &apos;s positive features .
Litigation can be costly and hazardous .
However , set against the alternative of relying on handouts punctuated by desperation and frequent episodes of collective self @-@ destruction , Africa should choose the legal option to rally its people and rescue its development process .
Africa &apos;s Dictator @-@ Diplomat
BRUSSELS - The recent death in Brussels of Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi finally brings to light what lay behind his mysterious two @-@ month disappearance from public life .
Ethiopia &apos;s government had strenuously denied rumors of serious ill health caused by liver cancer .
Now that the worst has , indeed , proven true , Ethiopia and all of East Africa will need to learn to live without the stabilizing influence of its great dictator @-@ diplomat .
Meles was certainly both .
Ethiopia has undergone a remarkable transformation under his strongman rule since 1991 , when his Tigrayan minority group from the country &apos;s north came to power with the overthrow of the odious Communist Derg led by Mengistu Haile Mariam ( still enjoying a comfortable retirement in Robert Mugabe &apos;s Zimbabwe ) .
Initially serving as the president of the first post @-@ Derg government , and then as Ethiopia &apos;s prime minister from 1995 until his death , Meles ( his nom de guerre in the revolution ) oversaw 7.7 % annual GDP growth in recent years .
Strong economic performance is somewhat surprising , given his party &apos;s interventionist policy approach , but Meles showed himself to be a consummate pragmatist in attracting investment - particularly from China - to drive growth .
Meles &apos;s own political provenance as the leader of the Tigrayan People &apos;s Liberation Front was Marxist @-@ Leninist .
But , when the Cold War ended , so , too , did his dogmatism .
To his credit , child mortality was reduced by 40 % under his government ; Ethiopia &apos;s economy became more diversified , with new industries like car manufacturing , beverages , and floriculture ; and major infrastructure projects , including Africa &apos;s largest hydroelectric dam , were launched .
Once a basket @-@ case associated in the world &apos;s eyes only with famine and drought , Ethiopia has become one of Africa &apos;s largest economies - and without the benefit of gold or oil .
Perhaps more important than Meles &apos;s domestic achievements was his diplomatic record . He was an indispensable ally of the West in the fight against Islamist terrorism , culminating in Ethiopia &apos;s military operation in neighboring Somalia in 2006 .
More recently , Meles coordinated efforts with Kenya to stage limited strikes against the al @-@ Shabaab militia , which has waged an unrelenting war to turn Somalia into a fundamentalist Islamic theocracy .
At the same time , Meles courted China as both an investor and as a hedge against the West &apos;s criticism of his human @-@ rights record .
And yet he controversially but rightly held out a hand of friendship to the breakaway region of Somaliland , before it became fashionable , and went as far as he could short of formal re @-@ recognition of that ray of democratic hope in the Horn of Africa . Meles will be sorely missed in Hargeisa , as he planned to run a Chinese @-@ financed gas pipeline through Somaliland territory from the Ogaden to the coast .
More important , Meles put Addis Ababa on the map as the home of the African Union , and as a capital where Africa &apos;s worst problems could be discussed in a pragmatic manner , unburdened by colonial grudges .
Meles himself became a major diplomatic player , particularly over climate @-@ change policy , and most recently was active in mediating border and natural @-@ resource disputes between Sudan and the newly independent ( and oil @-@ rich ) South Sudan .
He will be remembered for accepting the painful secession of Eritrea in 1993 , rather than prolong the civil war , and for his efforts to reach an agreement with Egypt over the use of the Blue Nile waters .
The great stain on Meles &apos;s record will always be his intolerance of dissent .
To be sure , his human @-@ rights record was far better than the Derg &apos;s .
For example , he allowed a private press to flourish , and in 2000 he became the first Ethiopian leader to hold multi @-@ party parliamentary elections . Moreover , compared to neighboring Eritrea under President Isaias Afewerki or Omar al @-@ Bashir &apos;s Sudan , his regime was by no means the worst offender in the region .
Nor was there much evidence of personal enrichment or widespread corruption .
Nevertheless , following a violently contested parliamentary election in 2005 , in which more than 30 parties participated , Meles demonstrated open contempt for democratic pluralism and press freedom , jailing several journalists in recent years . At the same time , he imposed increasingly strict central control on his ethnically and linguistically diverse country .
Although nominally governed by &quot; ethnic federalism , &quot; where this threatened secession , as in Oromia or the Ogaden , Meles was quick to ignore the constitutional set @-@ up .
Although he strengthened religious freedom and peaceful coexistence between Muslims and Christians , the human @-@ rights situation in Ethiopia remained poor .
For example , groups like Freedom House and Human Rights Watch have documented widespread official repression of the Oromo people .
And yet Meles is irreplaceable - unmatched intellectually as an African leader ( he dropped out of medical school , but went on to teach himself impeccable English and obtain European university degrees by correspondence ) , and unmatched politically at home , with no obvious successor groomed to replace him .
In the Horn of Africa , there is no leader of his stature who could ensure the stability and strong governance that the region so desperately needs .
Hailemariam Desalegn , Meles &apos;s foreign minister , will take over Ethiopia &apos;s government .
But there will be considerable concern in the West about the danger of a power vacuum or struggle in a geopolitically vital but fractious country - &amp; nbsp ; and just when neighboring Somalia is supposed to be undergoing a transition to a new parliament and elected government .
For his admirers and critics alike , Meles leaves behind a potent political legacy .
He will be remembered as an African leader of major historical significance : visionary , despotic , and indispensable .
Africa &apos;s Hard Black Gold
LAGOS - Few infrastructure services in the developed world may be as taken for granted as electric power .
To consumers in industrialized countries , uninterrupted power supply is a given .
Not so in much of Africa , which experiences some of the world &apos;s greatest power deficits , and where only two in ten people have access to electricity .
According to the International Monetary Fund &apos;s most recent Regional Economic Outlook for Sub @-@ Saharan Africa , in 2007 alone , nearly two @-@ thirds of the countries in the region experienced an acute energy crisis marked by frequent and extended electricity outages .
There is no shortage of hydropower plants for electricity generation in Africa .
However , many of these plants are unable to keep up with rapid population growth and attendant increases in demand .
Furthermore , they are prone to frequent drought , which reduces their output significantly , leaving many as little more than decorative infrastructure landmarks .
Increasingly burgeoning populations in countries like Nigeria and Ghana imply a greater extraction of water resources for power generation .
Rapid expansion of agricultural activity is requiring more and more water all across the continent .
Other resources like fuel oil , diesel , light crude , solar , and gas are also available as means of electricity generation , but their costs are all quite prohibitive .
These factors make a good argument for coal as a cheap alternative source of Africa &apos;s power .
Coal has historically played a crucial role as a source of energy worldwide , and has several important advantages over other fossil fuels . First is its relative abundance .
The current level of proven coal reserves worldwide stands at roughly 850 billion tons .
Africa has about 50 billion tons .
Coal is also much more widely distributed geographically than any other fossil fuel .
Worldwide energy demand has increased by more than 50 % since 1980 , and is expected to grow annually by 1.6 % between now and 2030 .
More than 70 % of this new demand will come from developing countries , with fossil fuels projected to account for about 80 % of total energy demand by the end of this period .
Coal is the world &apos;s fastest growing fossil fuel , with annual production increasing by 6.4 % since 2004 .
It is already the dominant source of power generation in some very important energy @-@ consuming nations .
Much of the future increases in coal @-@ fired electricity generation will come from strategically important developing countries like China and India .
In 2006 alone , China added about 93,000 megawatts of coal- fired electricity generating capacity , and this trend is expected to continue as the country tries to meet its huge energy needs .
Even in many developed countries , coal still accounts for a large share of power generation .
Coal plants currently provide more than half of America &apos;s electricity supply .
Denmark , which houses some of the most efficient coal @-@ fired power plants in the world , equally relies on coal for half of its electricity production .
The same is true for Germany , which is home to some of the most efficient pulverized coal combustion units in Europe .
Poland uses coal for 98 % of its electricity production , and South Africa uses coal for about 50 % of its electricity production .
Against this picture then , it is hard not to expect developing countries to exploit their abundant coal resources to generate power for their own development , especially given that modern technology can help produce coal cleanly .
Some argue that gas might be a better alternative to hydro or coal , but for countries that must import much of their gas the benefits of a stable and reliable source of cheap fuel in the form of coal present a very strong counter @-@ argument to the capital costs of a gas plant .
Unlike prices for coal , which is abundant and dispersed geographically , gas prices are subject to significant volatility , and the long @-@ term trend in the face of fossil fuel depletion is uncertain .
In contrast , coal prices are more stable , and may remain that way for a long time .
Apart from electric @-@ power generation , coal also has wide application in a number of industries .
It is pivotal in both steel and cement production .
Moreover , the use of wood by Africa &apos;s growing population is causing increasingly rapid deforestation in many countries .
There is significant potential domestic demand for coal briquettes to replace wood for cooking and domestic and industrial heating .
The demand outlook thus appears favorable for the coal industry , creating significant investment opportunities .
Clearly , there are environmental drawbacks from the use of coal as an energy resource , and these concerns are far too important to overlook .
The massive reserves notwithstanding , coal is still a finite resource .
It must be mined with greater efficiency and with a view to mitigating the environmental impact .
Fortunately , much greater attention is paid today to mine safety and the management of the by @-@ products of coal use .
With acid rain and other public @-@ health hazards linked to coal combustion , more technologies are emerging for reducing harmful emissions from power plants .
Fueled by research , the past few years have witnessed the development of increasingly cleaner and more energy @-@ efficient coal @-@ fired generation plants and the retirement of older technologies , especially in the developed world .
Developing countries have lagged behind in this process , but , with the common threat of global warming , there is now growing pressure to adopt conservation policies .
Africa &apos;s mineral @-@ rich countries must exploit their abundant natural resources .
They must use coal to advance their economic development .
Failure to do so would be a missed opportunity at a time when African countries must avail themselves of all available resources for poverty reduction .
Africa &apos;s Immunity
ACCRA - The United States suffers rising job losses .
Britain nationalizes its banks .
Once high @-@ flying small economies like Ireland , Hungary , and Iceland break down .
Even robust China and India are experiencing slower growth , curtailed ambitions , and broken dreams .
Yet , in sub @-@ Saharan Africa , there are few hints of the global financial crisis that is consuming the capitalist world .
In fashionable African cities , residential home prices remain stratospheric .
A typical Western @-@ style house in Kampala or Accra , for example , now costs an astonishing two to three times the price of a comparable home in , say , Cleveland or other cities in the American heartland .
While home prices are crashing from Madrid to Dublin and Miami to Los Angeles , African prices remain near or at record @-@ high levels .
African banks , meanwhile , are rock @-@ solid compared to their debt @-@ heavy counterparts in the US and Europe .
While international bankers went bust by making legions of bad loans , African bankers stuck to earning profits the old @-@ fashioned way : paying very little to depositors , and earning a big &quot; spread &quot; by buying guaranteed government debt , which yielded healthy returns .
Even government deficit spending - long the bane of Africa - seems positively puny compared to the massive debts that the US and some European countries face .
The new Obama administration is proposing spending plans that would create a record US deficit of more than one trillion dollars - and this coming on top of the outgoing Bush administration &apos;s record deficit .
And yet there are good reasons to believe that it is just a matter of time before Africa and its peoples experience the ill effects of the global crisis .
From Ghana to Kenya , governments are having increased difficulty in raising money for infrastructure projects and selling official debt .
Foreign investment in sub @-@ Saharan Africa , which reached record levels in recent years , is retreating , which is evidence of investor caution , not any underlying lack of optimism about the region .
And exports of raw materials to China , India , Europe , and the US - a key factor in Africa &apos;s recent growth surge - may suffer simply because the global slowdown means less consumption everywhere .
All of these factors suggest that an African financial bust is possible .
Popular equity investments , such as shares in Safaricom , are already trading at unexpectedly low levels .
If real estate prices were to fall dramatically , a chain reaction could occur , taking down big and small investors alike , and over time causing wide suffering to ordinary Africans .
Even assuming stability in real estate prices , the global crisis surely will cause a fall in remittances by Africans working good jobs in Europe , the US , Canada , Australia , and the Middle East .
Remittances are already believed to be falling , which makes sense : immigrants in rich countries are and will be disproportionately hurt by slowing economic activity .
Immigration itself may even slow dramatically , depending on the length and depth of the economic slowdown .
Fewer Africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into less money circulating in African countries .
The decline in remittances , however , cuts both ways .
Remittances have long spurred inflation in many parts of Africa .
A Ugandan doctor working in Norway , for instance , cares little about the cost of a beer in Kampala .
He is also willing - and able - to pay more than a local doctor for services and , of course , a home in Uganda .
Fewer remittances flowing into Uganda could mean less economic activity - or simply lower prices .
The financial meltdown in the US , which incubated the global crisis , is either coming under control or threatening to mutate into a new , more virulent form that could destroy not only America &apos;s paper economy of trading and brokering , but also its real economy of goods and services .
President Barack Obama , acting as if the latter scenario remains likely , is betting on large @-@ scale government spending to prop up the real economy .
If his administration succeeds , the chances that Africa will remain relatively unscathed will grow .
Even if Obama fails , however , Africans should escape the worst of the global crisis , for both good reasons and bad .
The good reasons have to do with African self @-@ reliance and a growing awareness among scholars and policymakers that trade within the region - especially between urban and rural Africa - will ultimately deliver enormous benefits .
Another factor working in Africa &apos;s favor is its private companies &quot; and consumers &quot; low dependence on borrowed money .
People tend to pay cash for goods and services , however costly .
In the US , loans for cars and homes - loans that now aren &apos;t being paid back - are the major factor behind the financial crisis .
In Africa , very few people borrow money for such purchases .
Africa &apos;s cash @-@ based economy has in the past constrained development .
After all , by allowing people to spend more than they have , borrowed money can fuel growth .
But today , Africa &apos;s pay @-@ as @-@ you @-@ go practices are a powerful defense against financial contagion .
Another way of looking at Africa &apos;s paradoxical economic position is to admit that the region &apos;s historical marginalization within the international financial system - so costly in times of global plenty - is proving to be an unexpected benefit when the wealthiest of the world are sick unto death .
Africa &apos;s Integration Imperative
Karl Marx predicted that states would wither away in anticipation of an idyllic communist society capable of auto @-@ regulating economic imbalances and empowering the masses .
So he would have been flabbergasted to see his prophecy realized , not by communism , but by the globalization of Anglo @-@ American economic liberalism .
Opening up markets to the free flow of capital , not the dictatorship of the proletariat , has rendered state power obsolete .
Today &apos;s capital markets raise money for governments , corporate clients , and individual customers , manage pension funds &quot; investments , and bet on the level of interest rates or the stock market .
Trading in derivatives by investment banks , hedge funds , and other market participants , reaps huge profits for traders while depriving the real economy of productive investment and job creation .
No population in the world is spared from the harsh treatment of such a system .
Some 40 % of the world &apos;s 6.5 billion people live in poverty , and a sixth live in extreme poverty .
However , the world &apos;s black populations are the prime victims .
In the United States , one @-@ eighth of all black males between the ages of 25 and 34 are in jail , and three out of five black American households with children are headed by a single mother .
As for African countries , the politics and economics of globalization have stripped them of their assets and natural resources and left them with an unbearable debt burden .
As a result , the percentage of Africa &apos;s population living in extreme poverty increased from 41.6 % in 1981 to 46.9 % in 2001 .
On the other hand , in the era of globalization , regions in which internal trade exceeds external trade have better economic outlooks and stronger social cohesion .
This is the case for Europe , Asia , and , increasingly , Latin America , particularly among the member states of Mercosur ( Argentina , Brazil , Chile , Uruguay , and Paraguay ) .
The opposite is true for regional groupings in Africa and in the Middle East where trade with the outside world is more important than intra @-@ regional trade .
As a result , any country formulating strategies to counter the destructive forces of globalization should give overriding priority to a self @-@ centred economic development strategy , preferably within a regional framework .
This is a prerequisite to defending against market fundamentalism and avoiding the iniquitous conditions of the international marketplace .
In this respect , the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ( Brunei Darussalam , Cambodia , Indonesia , Laos , Malaysia , Myanmar , Philippines , Singapore , Thailand , and Vietnam ) constitutes an edifying example .
The ASEAN economies adopted a united front on international economic issues and accorded priority to internal economic integration and expanding linkages with major trading partners .
Exports have remained the main driver of economic performance for the ASEAN countries , contributing to 5.8 % regional GDP growth in 2006 .
ASEAN foreign direct investment ( FDI ) flows reached US $ 38 billion in 2005 , up by 48 % from the previous year .
The outlook for 2006 was also bullish , with preliminary data for the first quarter indicating that FDI flows had already reached US $ 14 billion , up from US $ 7.4 billion in the year @-@ earlier period .
ASEAN &apos;s drive to establish a fully @-@ fledged economic community has been underlined by implementation of its Priority Integration Sector Roadmaps .
By contrast , sub @-@ Saharan Africa &apos;s historical legacy of artificial and unmanageable colonial boundaries , ethnic antagonisms , its citizens &quot; deficit of self @-@ respect , and an appalling record of leadership failures has hampered its quest for economic integration .
But a sector @-@ by @-@ sector approach could mitigate these handicaps , and , given the pressing need to address demand for energy and climate change , it might be strategically advisable to start with the energy sector .
Africa is a continent rich in energy , holding two @-@ thirds of the world &apos;s reserves of hydro @-@ electric power - trillions of kilowatt @-@ hours representing about half of total world resources .
The Congo River alone holds more than 600 billion kilowatt @-@ hours of annual reserves . The Sanaga ( Cameroon ) and the Ogooué ( Gabon ) hold half as much .
Technological breakthroughs have made it feasible to transport electricity via high @-@ voltage direct current ( HVDC ) over long distances without incurring great losses ( only about 3 % per 1,000 kilometers ) .
Carbon @-@ free hydroelectric power is the right choice as sub @-@ Saharan Africa &apos;s principal source of energy .
Harnessing the hydroelectric power of the Congo Basin alone would be enough to meet all of Africa &apos;s energy needs , or to light the entire continent of South America . Moreover , establishing an African grid would enable power from the Democratic Republic of Congo to be delivered to southern European countries such as Spain , Portugal , and Italy .
However , while 90 % of world reserves of hydraulic energy are concentrated in underdeveloped regions like sub @-@ Saharan Africa , HVDC technology remains the preserve of developed countries .
There is thus an imperative not only for regional integration in Africa , but also for a joint strategic vision and partnership to help build global energy and climate security .
Africa &apos;s Misplaced Monetary Ambitions
DAKAR - Sub @-@ Saharan African is in the grip of currency @-@ union mania .
Regional groups of countries in eastern , southern , and western Africa are all giving priority to the idea of creating a monetary union .
But haven &apos;t we heard this all before in Africa ?
Indeed , today &apos;s enthusiasm for currency unions ignores the poor track record of previous attempts on the continent to establish them through peaceful means .
A common currency requires unified and centrally agreed monetary and fiscal policies .
But this necessitates political integration , which , as the troubles of the euro this year have demonstrated , is a hard sell among nation @-@ states .
Before the euro &apos;s arrival on the international financial scene in 1999 , the only examples of countries with common currencies were neo @-@ colonial francophone Africa and nineteenth @-@ century precedents like the Latin American and Scandinavian monetary unions .
The creation of the CFA franc , which gives France control of 65 % of the CFA countries &quot; foreign @-@ exchange reserves , combined currency convertibility with a grossly overvalued parity - pegged first to the French franc and now to the euro - as well as trade barriers .
This led only to structural deficits , vast capital flight , and , in 1994 , a 100 % devaluation .
Yet , despite the difficulties that have bedeviled the CFA ( and the euro of late ) - indeed , despite the absence of viable regional customs unions ( except in the East African Community ) , let alone a single market - Africans retain a strong allegiance to the idea of a currency union .
That allegiance is misplaced .
At this stage of their economic development , with its focus on commodity exports , the priority for Africa &apos;s countries should be long @-@ term economic integration , not currency union .
Here , the model to follow is not the euro , but Latin America &apos;s Southern Common Market ( Mercosur ) and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ( ASEAN ) .
Both regional groupings have , by lowering trade barriers , delivered a real catalyst to economic growth .
Mercosur &apos;s member countries have adopted a strategy that prioritizes the creation of a free @-@ trade area .
They steered clear of establishing a heavy budget @-@ fueled bureaucracy , leaving respective ministries to handle administering the accord . In 2008 , Mercosur intra @-@ regional exports reached $ 41.6 billion , up by 28.4 % from 2007 .
The external trade of Paraguay , Argentina , and Brazil within the area amounted , respectively , to 65 % , 33 % , and 15 % of their total exports .
The other major advantage of such regional groupings has been their ability to attract foreign direct investment . Since the early 1990 &quot; s , Mercosur has managed to mobilize 5.9 % of world FDI inflows .
In 2008 , it attracted a record $ 56 billion in FDI , an increase of 31.5 % from 2007 . Moreover , cross @-@ investment between Mercosur member countries has led to greater economic integration . Argentina is now Brazil &apos;s second @-@ largest trading partner , behind the United States , while Brazil is Argentina &apos;s largest trading partner , ahead of the US .
The seven member countries of ASEAN decided to implement economic &quot; roadmaps &quot; defining integration priorities , a testimony to their determination to achieve a single economic community .
A currency union , however , is not high on the agenda .
In 2009 , ASEAN regional trade represented 24.6 % of its members &quot; total exports and 24.3 % of total imports .
By contrast , trade among African countries accounts for only about 10 @-@ 12 % of the continent &apos;s exports and imports .
But , partly because several African countries have escaped the hang @-@ over from the global credit crisis , more investors are focusing on business opportunities there .
By 2050 , the combined GDP of the largest 11 African economies should reach more than $ 13 trillion , surpassing Brazil and Russia ( but not China or India ) .
For some analysts , the emergence of countries like Brazil as economic powerhouses stems partly from successful demutualization of their stock exchanges .
Twenty @-@ three bourses are currently operating in Africa , and their combined market capitalization has soared from $ 245 billion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion ( 2 % of the world total ) at the end of 2009 - as high as the fifteenth @-@ largest stock exchange in the world .
With a volume of $ 800 billion , the Johannesburg Stock Exchange alone accounts for 80 % of the total and ranks 19th worldwide . Nigeria plans to demutualize its stock exchange in order to establish it among the prime destinations for frontier investors .
Africa stands to benefit from a massive economic turnaround , provided that the right environment for sustainable growth and rising productivity is created .
This requires consistent macroeconomic policies focused on economic integration , food self @-@ sufficiency , low inflation , and reduced debt .
It also requires political stability , eradication of corruption , enhanced rule of law , improvement of basic levels of education , and greater use of mobile telephones and the Internet .
What it does not require is a currency union .
When it comes to exchange rates , the members of Africa &apos;s economic groupings would be better off linking their currencies in regional monetary systems to prevent large fluctuations relative to one another .
Africa \ u0027s Odious Debts
One side effect of the American / British occupation of Iraq is that it sparked public debate on a dark secret of international finance : the debts taken on by odious regimes .
As Iraq &apos;s new rulers debate what to do about the billions of dollars in foreign debts inherited from Saddam Hussein &apos;s regime , voices ranging from the charity Oxfam @-@ International to US defence guru Richard Perle are calling for debt repudiation on the grounds that the debts Iraq now bears were contracted to sustain a corrupt , oppressive regime .
Iraq is not the only country burdened by such debts .
Across sub @-@ Saharan Africa , many of the world &apos;s poorest people struggle with the crippling legacy of profligate lending to corrupt , oppressive rulers .
During his 32 @-@ year dictatorship , Congo &apos;s former president Joseph Mobutu accumulated a personal fortune estimated at $ 4 billion , while his government ran up a $ 12 billion foreign debt .
More of the same in Angola , where last year an IMF investigation revealed that $ 4 billion disappeared from Angola &apos;s treasury over the past five years .
It so happens that the Angolan government borrowed a similar sum from private banks in this period , mortgaging future oil revenues as security .
Much of Africa &apos;s ill @-@ gotten wealth is now stashed abroad .
In a study of 30 sub @-@ Saharan African countries , we estimate that total capital flight for the period 1970 @-@ 1996 amounted to $ 187 billion .
Adding imputed interest earnings , the stock of Africa &apos;s capital flight stood at $ 274 billion - a sum equivalent to 145 % of the debts owed by those countries .
In other words , sub @-@ Saharan Africa is a net creditor to the rest of the world : its external assets exceed its external debts .
The difference is that the assets are private and the debts public .
Statistical analysis reveals that roughly 80 cents on every dollar borrowed by African countries flowed back as capital flight in the same year .
Foreign borrowing and capital flight were connected by a financial revolving door , as funds borrowed in the name of governments were captured by politically connected individuals and channeled overseas as their private wealth .
Moreover , every dollar added to a country &apos;s total debt generated 3 to 4 cents of extra capital flight per year in subsequent years , implying that capital flight was partly a response to the deteriorating economic environment associated with rising debt burdens .
In the last decade , sub @-@ Saharan Africa recorded a &quot; net transfer &quot; ( new borrowing minus debt service on past loans ) of
But there is a remedy at hand .
The doctrine of &quot; odious debt &quot; dates from the end of the 19
Properly functioning financial markets require creditors to bear the consequences of imprudent lending .
The notion that lenders should always be repaid , regardless of how and to whom they lend , is indefensible .
The logic of sound banking tells us that current and future African governments should accept liability only for those portions of public debts that were incurred to finance
This policy poses two practical problems .
The first is to determine who should bear the burden of proof in identifying which debts are &quot; odious . &quot;
Given the evidence of widespread capital flight fueled by external borrowing , African governments can rightly insist that creditors have the responsibility of establishing that their loans were used for
The second problem is that creditors may withhold new lending from governments that have the nerve to reject odious debts .
But today resources flow from Africa to creditors , rather than the reverse .
In the short run , African countries will save money by staunching this outflow .
In the long run , selective repudiation of odious debts will benefit both borrowers and creditors by promoting more responsible lending practices .
If Iraq &apos;s occupation gives impetus to legal challenges that free Africans from the burden of odious debts , then the war will have succeeded in dismantling at least one weapon of mass destruction .
Africa \ u0027s Oil Rush
It takes a threat to oil supplies to get world leaders to pay attention to Africa .
Usually neglected by globetrotting statesmen , the continent recently saw visits from US President George W. Bush , Chinese President Hu Jintao , Brazil &apos;s Lula Da Silva , German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and many other world leaders .
Their public comments were typically devoted to development , ending Africa &apos;s many wars , and the fight against HIV / AIDS , but all of them had oil on their minds .
An oil rush is underway in the continent , because all developed countries &apos; national security depends on a steady oil supply , and sub @-@ Saharan Africa owns 8 % of the world &apos;s known reserves .
In 2002 production was 2.1 million barrels a day in Nigeria , 900,000 in Angola , 283,000 in Congo Brazzaville , 265,000 in Equatorial Guinea , 247,000 in Gabon , 227,000 in Sudan , 75,000 in Cameroon , 28,000 in South Africa , 25,000 in the Democratic Republic of Congo , and 11,000 in Ivory Coast .
The US alone imports 1.5 million barrels a day from West Africa , the same amount it imports from Saudi Arabia .
According to the US Energy Department , within this decade American oil imports from Africa will reach 770 millions barrels annually , as exploration intensifies throughout the Gulf of Guinea , and as the US brokers peace in war @-@ ravaged oil @-@ producing countries , such as Sudan and Angola , and establishes strategic bases to safeguard output .
As a result , West African oil producers will be earning an estimated $ 200 billion over the next decade , more than 10 times the sum Western countries allocate each year to the &quot; aid industry &quot; in the region .
So why aren &apos;t Africans celebrating ?
Because they are well aware of the &quot; curse of oil &quot; - corruption , conflict , ecological disaster , and anaesthetized entrepreneurial spirit .
In Nigeria , an estimated $ 300 billion in oil revenues entered the government &apos;s coffers over the past 25 years , but per capita income remains less than one dollar a day for the simple reason that much of the money ends up in Swiss bank accounts , like the one owned by the late dictator Sani Abacha .
In Angola , British Petroleum revealed that it had to pay a $ 111 million &quot; signature bonus &quot; to the government .
As scandalous as it might be , these sums are mere peanuts compared to the $ 4.5 billions in oil revenues supposedly siphoned away from African government coffers over the last decade .
But graft and theft are not the only problems .
The celebrated pipeline between Chad and Cameroon caused water pollution , devastated pygmies &apos; hunting grounds , destroyed harvests , and spread AIDS - perhaps the inevitable result of ill @-@ educated migrant workers toiling thousands of miles from home , with a horde of prostitutes following them . Projected annual revenues from this project for oil companies such as Chevron , Exxon , and Petronas , and lenders like the World Bank and the European Investment Bank , are estimated at $ 4.7 billion .
Chad will see a mere $ 62 million , and Cameroon just $ 18.6 million .
So petrodollars exacerbate poverty in sub @-@ Saharan Africa , not cure it .
Only openness and accountability can reverse this trend .
This was the objective set by the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative , which requested that the publication of multinational oil companies &apos; payments to governments be made mandatory .
Unfortunately , because the companies and African politicians have every reason to avoid transparency , the EITI plans were rendered meaningless when they were not made compulsory .
What lessons can be learned from this sorry state of affairs ?
One relates to the defenders of those suffering such obvious exploitation .
The people who rebelled against these injustices were not Africans , but well @-@ wishers from western organizations such as EITI , the US aid agency Catholic Relief Services ( CRS ) , and Global Witness .
African intellectuals , artists , and civil rights activists did not feel the need to express solidarity with fellow Africans and to defend the rights of the downtrodden .
African civil society seems trapped in indifference and inertia .
Another lesson concerns Africa &apos;s failed political leadership .
It is customary to link Africa &apos;s failures to slavery and colonization , and no one can deny such claims .
But this recognition does not exonerate Africa &apos;s &quot; kinglets , &quot; who handed their subjects over to the slave traders .
Recently , a congregation of African church leaders convened in the Senegalese island of Gorée and urged their people to assess their share of responsibility for the slave trade .
The call went unheeded .
That is a shame , for here was a moment to expose the flaws of most African leaders throughout our tormented history .
The constant ability of Africa &apos;s leaders to betray their people is the root cause of Africa &apos;s current misery .
Their fecklessness and recklessness are what convince much of the world that Africans can do nothing but dance , slaughter each other , and beg .
Easy access to oil wealth only allows their cynical frivolity to continue .
If Africa &apos;s oil wealth is to be exploited - and it
Africa &apos;s Press : Missing in Action
In much of Africa , the challenge for journalists , editors , and readers goes beyond freedom of the press , and involves its very survival .
Under Nigeria &apos;s various dictatorships , for example , many journalists underwent a rite of passage that most prefer to forget : routine harassment , beatings , torture , frame @-@ ups on spurious charges , and incongruously long prison sentences .
Among the numerous victims , perhaps the most bizarre case was that of a young journalist named Bagauda Kaltho .
His body was found in a hotel toilet in the city of Kaduna with the remains of a parcel bomb after an explosion that no one heard .
Yet there he lay , and with a copy of my book The Man Died beside him .
The implication , encouraged by the regime , was that Kaltho was a recruit of mine who blew himself up while preparing his next bomb in a campaign of terror aimed at Sanni Abacha &apos;s dictatorship .
This unconscionable fabrication was fully exposed only after Abacha &apos;s death and the spate of confessions that followed it by the police agents who actually committed the crime .
The press fought back tenaciously , despite casualties .
Journalists adopted tactics of underground publication , in the best tradition of East European samizdat .
When police raided one place , copies emerged from other secure depots , to be sold in the streets by kamikaze youths who darted in and out of traffic offering the subversive contraband .
It did not matter that these youthful hawkers , some no more than seven or eight years old , were often arrested , beaten , and locked up for weeks , occasionally months . When they emerged from prison , they returned to their dangerous work .
But Nigeria does not offer the premier example of the awesome power of the press . That honor belongs to a different history and region .
If benchmarks such as focus , mobilization , commitment , organization , and sheer impact are any guide , then the prize goes to the media &apos;s baleful role in preparing the Rwandan massacre of 1994 , and in directing , overseeing , and stoking the fervor of the génocidaires once the extermination of Tutsis began .
It remains a sobering lesson , one that presents the media in the role of aggressor and violator , in contrast to their normal position as victim .
Those events are too familiar to require re @-@ hashing .
What matters now is the role that the rest of the African media should have played , and the questions that this raises about their capacity to function as a watchdog .
Not many Africans , even among those who are knowledgeable in world affairs , had ever heard of Radio Milles Collines , the most blatant instrument of the Rwandan genocide .
It is chastening that events primarily concerning Africans enter the public domain mainly owing to the intervention of the foreign media .
It was they who exposed the complicity of certain foreign powers in an ongoing crime against humanity .
And it was the foreign press that detailed the parallel failure of the United Nations , whose agents were on the ground but whose inability to call genocide by its proper name led to a comatose response .
Simply put , the African media failed to reach beyond immediate borders and serve as a voice for the continent in its encounters with the world .
The African media &apos;s response to the massacres and rapes in Darfur has been equally muted .
Once again , African readers are being shortchanged , remaining dependent on foreign reportage in order to grasp the enormity of what is transpiring .
African civil society , whose mouthpiece is the press , cannot escape some measure of reproach for its failure to urge leaders to rescue fellow Africans .
From Liberia to the Congo , the predicament of the African continent today demands that the press act not only as a watchdog , but as a goad .
It is to the media that the continent must look for an example of solidarity .
Such solidarity should not be understood as something to be exercised only in times of convulsion .
The cheap recourse to dismissive invectives such as &quot; outside interference , &quot; &quot; jaundiced reporting , &quot; and &quot; imperial mouthpiece &quot; - so beloved by corrupt and / or repressive regimes - is recognized as self @-@ serving cant even by those who routinely mouth them .
Africa &apos;s media must respond with its own analyses , explanations , and narratives .
Unfortunately , in repressive conditions such as those in , say , Zimbabwe , Third @-@ World journalists tend to take their cues from the conduct of their national leaders and close ranks around the continent &apos;s rogue elephants .
This reflex has left Zimbabwe practically a journalism @-@ free zone , with only the foreign press seeking to hold President Robert Mugabe to account .
Imitation appears to be a hallmark of tyrants in their exercise of power , so the absence of solidarity among Africa &apos;s journalists and Africa &apos;s peoples has created a dangerous vacuum .
Today it is Zimbabwe &apos;s press that is under the gun .
Tomorrow ?
We should all bear this in mind , for territorial ambition often goes hand in hand with the censor &apos;s creed .
Africa \ u0027s Quest for Power
Why does Africa remain poor ?
Civil war , famine , disease , the legacy of colonialism @-@ all have been advanced as plausible reasons for the continent &apos;s grinding poverty and economic backwardness .
But another factor @-@ probably related in some ways to these others @-@ plays a fundamental role in stifling development : a lack of modern energy sources .
Africa &apos;s enormous energy potential remains vastly under exploited . This is a key conclusion of the 2003 / 2004 African Economic Outlook , published recently by the OECD .
While almost half of Africa &apos;s 53 countries could profitably produce hydropower , only 7 % of this potential is reached because of poor infrastructure and the high costs of initial investments .
Furthermore , despite its large geothermal and solar energy potential , Africa accounts for only 1.3 % of the world &apos;s installed solar facilities , and only four countries have started exploiting underground heat sources .
Of the fossil energy sources - primarily oil - that African countries do exploit , only a quarter is consumed locally .
Limited energy development in Africa has resulted in one of the lowest uses of modern energy sources in the world .
More than three quarters of sub @-@ Saharan Africans have no access to electricity , compared to fewer than 14 % of Latin Americans and East Asians .
As a result , most Africans use biomass ( animal and vegetable wastes and firewood ) for lighting , cooking , and heating .
Families in rural and semi @-@ rural areas often have no choice but to exploit what they perceive as a &quot; free &quot; energy source .
However , as populations grow and the need for energy increases , fragile ecosystems are threatened .
Replacing biomass sources by less destructive energy supplies has thus become increasingly urgent .
Clearly , African countries , assisted by their development partners , need to develop the continent &apos;s enormous energy potential as an integral part of their efforts to spur economic growth and reduce poverty .
Improvements in energy supplies have multiple beneficial effects .
Public and home lighting , refrigeration of food , medicine and vaccines , and heating and proper sanitation help improve people &apos;s living conditions and health .
More and higher @-@ quality energy increases production through modernized communications , improved productivity , and a better business environment .
A secure energy supply , moreover , greatly extends learning possibilities and improves access to information .
More informed citizens , in turn , participate at a higher rate and to a greater degree in their country &apos;s decision @-@ making processes .
Thus , institutions are rendered more democratic and governments become more transparent and responsible .
Some countries have sought to bridge the gap between their energy potential and their populations &apos; lack of access to energy .
In a few countries , private @-@ sector participation in electricity companies , coupled with new independent regulators , has resulted in greater and more efficient power generation and higher employment , while doubling the number of subscribers .
Electrification for the rural poor has improved in South Africa and Ghana through the creation of independent agencies in charge of implementing rural electrification plans .
Similar policies need to be adopted by a greater number of countries to enable them to address their energy challenges in a more effective way .
More attention should also be given to regional and inter @-@ regional power initiatives , which can help smooth out the uneven distribution of energy resources across countries .
Such reforms have the potential of benefiting consumers by lowering costs and improving the reliability and quality of services .
An integrated , continent @-@ wide energy strategy , linked to national policies for growth would , indeed , go a long way toward addressing this important need .
One vehicle for promoting such an approach is the New Partnership for Africa &apos;s Development ( NEPAD ) .
The NEPAD Heads of States Implementing Committee has asked the African Development Bank to take the lead in regional infrastructure ( including transport , energy , water , etc . ) and banking and financial standards .
As part of the work on regional infrastructure , the Bank has developed a short @-@ term action plan .
Several projects , including some in the energy sector , have been prepared or are under preparation , and four have already been approved for financing by the Bank .
Projects and programs identified in the short @-@ term action plan are estimated to cost $ 7 billion .
In addition , work has also started in preparing a medium to long @-@ term action plan in close collaboration with the regional economic communities and in cooperation with the World Bank and the European Union .
The
As Africa looks to the future , developing its enormous energy resources - through both national and regional efforts - must be given high priority .
Indeed , boosting its energy capacity will be critical to unleashing the continent &apos;s economic and human potential .
Africa &apos;s Urban Farmers
NAIROBI - When I met Eunice Wangari at a Nairobi coffee shop recently , I was surprised to hear her on her mobile phone , insistently asking her mother about the progress of a corn field in her home village , hours away from the big city .
A nurse , Wangari counts on income from farming to raise money to buy more land - for more farming .
Even though Wangari lives in Kenya &apos;s capital , she is able to reap hundreds of dollars a year in profit from cash crops grown with the help of relatives .
Her initial stake - drawn from her nursing wages of about $ 350 a month - has long since been recovered .
Wangari is one of thousands of urban workers in Kenya - and one of hundreds of thousands , even millions , across Africa - who are increasing their incomes through absentee agriculture .
With prices for basic foodstuffs at their highest levels in decades , many urbanites feel well rewarded by farming .
Absentee agriculture also bolsters national pride - and pride in traditional diets - by specializing in vegetables specific to the region . &quot; For too long our country has been flooded with imported food and Westernized foods , &quot; Wangari says .
&quot; This is our time to fight back - and grow our own . &quot;
Across Africa , political leaders , long dismissive of rural concerns , have awakened to the importance of agriculture and the role that educated people , even those living in major cities , can play in farming .
In Nigeria , former President Olusegun Obasanjo has a huge diversified farm and has pushed for policies to help absentee farmers prosper .
In Uganda , Vice President Gilbert Bukenya routinely travels the country , promoting higher @-@ value farming , such as dairy production .
Perhaps the most visible political support for absentee agriculture is in Liberia , a small West African country where civil war destroyed agriculture , rendering the population dependent on food imports , even today .
President Johnson @-@ Sirleaf , recognizing that educated people could contribute much to an agriculture revival , launched her &quot; Back to the Soil &quot; campaign in June 2008 in large part to encourage urban dwellers to farm .
To be sure , absentee farming by elites and educated urban workers can &apos;t solve all of Africa &apos;s urgent food needs .
Moreover , absentee farmers face unexpected problems .
Because they don &apos;t visit their fields often , they rely heavily on relatives and friends . When I decided to farm wheat for the first time this spring on leased land in my childhood village , my mother agreed to supervise plowing , planting , and harvesting .
Without her help , I might not have farmed at all .
Even with mother &apos;s help , I have worries .
Although I grew up around wheat fields , my knowledge of farming is thin .
Fertilizer and spraying were both more expensive than I thought .
While my wheat stalks are sprouting on schedule , I now fear that at harvest time - in November - prices will fall and I won &apos;t recoup my costs .
One key tool is the mobile phone .
My hopes for success are buoyed by my ability to call my mother inexpensively and discuss the farm .
We even decided over the phone what kind of pesticide to use and which tractor company to hire .
Because they know both the tastes of fellow city dwellers and rural conditions , many urban farmers are succeeding .
In fact , some city dwellers don &apos;t even bother with acquiring land or gaining distant help .
Certain crops can be grown in their own homes .
James Memusi , an accountant , grows mushrooms in a spare bedroom , selling them to nearby hotels and supermarkets .
Nevertheless , most people living in Africa &apos;s cities have access to land in the countryside , which is why Liberia &apos;s government rightly highlights the potential for farm expansion .
In a new advertising campaign rolled out this summer , the authorities declared , &quot; The soil is a bank ; invest in it . &quot;
In Liberia , the main push is to reduce imports of staples such as rice and tomatoes .
In more prosperous countries , African elites are motivated by a complex interplay of national pride , dietary concerns , and the pursuit of profit .
In Zambia , for example , Sylva Banda ignited a craze for authentic traditional meals two decades ago with a chain of popular restaurants .
Now , ordinary Lusakans want to cook similar meals in their own homes , driving demand for farmers who produce such delicacies as dried pumpkin , &quot; black jack &quot; leaves , and fresh Okra .
Similarly , in Nairobi , Miringo Kinyanjui , another woman entrepreneur , is supplying unrefined - and more nutritious - maize and wheat flour .
In another move to distinguish her ingredients from Western versions , Kinyanjui also sells through grocery stores flour flavored with Amarathan , a green vegetable that grows around Kenya .
The revival of traditional foods has attracted the attention of large multinational corporations .
Last year , Unilever &apos;s Kenyan branch ran a &quot; taste our culture &quot; campaign in support of its line of traditional East African herbs and spices .
Such campaigns go hand @-@ in @-@ hand with expanded farming , because sellers of these foods prefer nearby growers - even if these growers increasingly live in the city .
African Misrule on Trial
THE HAGUE - As the world focuses on the inauguration of America &apos;s first black president and celebrates an important milestone in the ongoing struggle for racial equality , recent developments across the Atlantic represent significant progress in a related global campaign to end impunity for mass crimes .
In the coming days , judges sitting on the International Criminal Court in The Hague will decide whether to issue a warrant for the arrest of Sudanese President Omar al @-@ Bashir for the crime of genocide .
And on January 26 , the ICC will begin its first trial - that of Thomas Lubanga Dyilo , a former Congolese warlord .
Neither event is earth shattering , but , taken together , these two steps mean that a new system of international justice is working .
Government and rebel leaders around the globe have been put on notice that criminal conduct will no longer be given a free pass .
Although the threatened indictment of al @-@ Bashir has prompted protest in Khartoum , no one expects him to appear in court soon .
As for Lubanga , he is one of many in the Congo who has used civilians as pawns in a war that has cost more than five million lives in the past decade .
Though serious , the charges against him - recruiting child soldiers - do not pretend to encompass the range of abuses committed .
Five years after the world &apos;s first permanent criminal tribunal commenced operations , it has made its mark .
The ICC has opened four active investigations , issued public charges against twelve people , and to date secured custody of four .
Nonetheless , the Court has come under fire for three alleged failings .
First , some argue that by interjecting itself into ongoing conflicts , the ICC has impeded efforts to secure peace .
But the facts on the ground do not bear this out .
In northern Uganda , ICC charges against leaders of the rebel Lord &apos;s Resistance Army have helped bring an end to years of brutal fighting , and marginalized the LRA &apos;s chief , Joseph Kony .
Similarly , in Sudan &apos;s Darfur region , there has been no genuine peace process to disrupt , as attacks on civilians continue to be reported , even after the United Nations Security Council referred the matter to the ICC in 2005 .
Even so , the ICC prosecutor &apos;s application for an arrest warrant for al @-@ Bashir - announced this past July - has yet to provoke a widely @-@ feared crackdown on humanitarian organizations .
On the contrary , it may have prompted the arrest of a lower @-@ level indictee for crimes in Darfur .
In short , more law , rather than less , is needed to help stem the violence .
Second , the ICC is said to have allowed itself to become a tool of national political leaders .
The fact that national governments referred three of the Court &apos;s four active cases - and that in each of those cases only armed rebels or government opponents have been charged so far - has contributed to this perception .
Navigating this interplay between law and politics is perhaps the ICC &apos;s greatest challenge .
On the one hand , the Court &apos;s actions often have political consequences : however well @-@ founded , accusing the leader of a rebel army may be seen as taking sides in a conflict .
On the other hand , the Court cannot charge - or refrain from charging - a senior political or military official responsible for grave crimes solely to avert negative political repercussions .
Nor would it be proper , where the gravity and scale of crimes materially differ , to charge all sides in a conflict in order to preserve a false sense of parity .
Both of these complaints reflect a third : unease with the Court &apos;s overwhelming focus on Africa .
Some suggest that this is yet another example of Western institutions applying to Africa principles that they don &apos;t apply to themselves .
The long history of Africa &apos;s exploitation demands that this concern not be dismissed out of hand .
Nevertheless , Africa is the site of many of the world &apos;s worst conflicts .
Nor is the ICC a foreign body .
Thirty African governments have ratified the ICC &apos;s governing statute , and several of the Court &apos;s 18 judges hail from Africa , as does a substantial portion of its staff .
Still , the Court should not hesitate to act outside Africa when mass atrocities demand redress .
The experience of other war crimes tribunals suggests that questions about political bias may take years to overcome .
Only by demonstrating professionalism in its work , and willingness to hold senior government figures accountable where appropriate , can the ICC engender broad and lasting support .
Over time , the ICC &apos;s example should foster more effective national and regional prosecutions of serious crimes such as genocide , crimes against humanity , and war crimes .
For now , the Court can best address skeptics by more regularly and transparently explaining itself - its decisions , its mandate , and its constraints - to a global public to whom it ultimately must answer .
African Muslims In The Islamic World
Nigeria has been convulsed by religious violence triggered by the cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad published in a Danish newspaper months ago .
The violence began in the northern Nigerian city of Maiduguri during a protest by Muslims against the cartoons , with the Christian Association of Nigeria reporting at least 50 Christians killed .
Reprisals were swift , and at least 50 Muslims were killed in three days of violence in the southeastern ( predominantly Christian ) cities of Onitsha and Enugu .
The Nigerian protests against the cartoons ( so far the most violent in Africa ) raise the question : what is the role and position of African Muslims ( or more accurately , sub @-@ Saharan African Muslims ) in the &quot; Islamic World &quot; ?
When people in the rest of the world use the term &quot; Islamic World &quot; do they include in it sub @-@ Saharan African Muslims , or do they have in mind only the Muslims of the Middle East and Asia ?
Muslims in sub @-@ Saharan Africa do not share many characteristics with Muslims in other parts of the world , especially those of the Arab world .
Sub @-@ Saharan African Muslims are less assertive , and they face considerably more difficulties in their attempts to articulate their rights and establish their presence in their respective states and regions .
Part of the difficulty arises from the perpetual African dilemma of identity .
Africa has been described as a continent having a triple heritage , and the African Muslim , too , has a split personality .
He must decide whether he is a Muslim first , then a member of his tribe , say , Hausa , and then of his nation , say , Nigeria .
Even though Muslim practice is strong in Africa , there is widespread incorporation of traditional African rituals in ceremonies like weddings and funerals .
For example , among the Luhya in Western Kenya , it is not uncommon for Muslims to slaughter animals during funerals , even though , strictly speaking , there is no such provision in Islam .
Muslims in many sub @-@ Saharan African states are also minorities .
They do not form a formidable presence , as in Nigeria , where some Muslim @-@ majority states in the north have even implemented Sharia Law , making them more or less Islamic states .
Nevertheless , the Federal Republic of Nigeria is a secular state , as are almost all sub @-@ Saharan African states .
The colonial legacy also helps account for the relatively docile nature of Muslims in sub @-@ Saharan Africa .
The colonial powers &quot; arbitrary demarcation of borders lumped together in one state diverse ethnic groups which may have been historical antagonists .
Colonial political economy also concentrated &quot; development &quot; in resource @-@ rich areas , while neglecting resource @-@ poor regions and their populations , which in many cases were Muslim .
Thus we see a relatively poor Hausa @-@ Muslim majority population in northern Nigeria and a relatively rich Ibo @-@ Christian majority population in oil @-@ rich southeastern Nigeria ; a relatively rich Christian majority population in central Kenya and a relatively poor Muslim majority population on the coast and in the northeastern provinces ; and so on .
As political power tends to polarize around economic power , sub @-@ Saharan African Muslims have been under @-@ represented in these mostly centralized political systems .
Moreover , Muslims in these mostly patron @-@ client states have been forced to identify more with atomistic / parochial ethnic nationalism in order to enjoy the &quot; fruits of independence &quot; and thus acquire whatever political representation they have .
This has led to a related problem in countries bordering the Indian Ocean : disunity between coastal , more Arabized Muslims and the non @-@ Arabized Muslims of the interior .
It is no exaggeration to argue that the more Arabized African Muslims along the Kenyan and Tanzanian coasts ( including the island of Zanzibar ) consider themselves &quot; more Muslim &quot; than the less Arabized Muslims inland .
Muslim political participation in sub @-@ Saharan Africa has thus been extremely limited .
Political Islam is an almost unknown phenomenon in this region ( the Islamic Party of Kenya was never registered , for example ) , and Muslim organizations have mostly focused on welfare and rights .
However , Muslims in sub @-@ Saharan Africa , like most Muslims around the world , exhibit an &quot; us versus them &quot; mentality .
When Muslims form a minority , they have tended to co @-@ exist peacefully with other religions , but where their populations are substantial ( as in Nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves .
Whatever ethnic and other divisions are at stake , the &quot; us versus them &quot; sentiment has played a large role in fomenting religious conflict in Nigeria .
Nevertheless , Nigeria ( and perhaps Zanzibar ) remains an exception in Islamic assertiveness in sub @-@ Saharan Africa , which is why the idea of an active &quot; Islamic World &quot; includes only a relatively limited segment of sub @-@ Saharan African Muslims .
Whether they like it or not , the majority of sub @-@ Saharan African Muslims are represented by states that are mostly secular , Christian , or dominated by other religions .
After Arafat
Yasir Arafat appears , once again , to have held off challenges to his rule .
But his latest victory does not answer the question of what will happen when he finally does leave the political scene .
When Arafat was seriously ill in 2003 , Palestinians were near panic .
Ahmad Dudin , former Fatah leader in Hebron , summed up the dilemma this way : &quot; The Palestinian Authority has always been a one @-@ man operation .
Arafat never really agreed to share power .
That is the problem . &quot;
Not only does Arafat have no designated successor , but he has crippled the creation of institutions that could provide for a smooth transition , develop new leaders , mediate disputes among competing candidates and factions , or check the power of a future dictator .
But at some point , Arafat will depart .
He is 74 years old , and cannot be described as healthy .
Arafat &apos;s ability to symbolize the Palestinian cause throughout the world has worn thin in recent years , but any successor would be more obscure .
So what will happen when a transition is forced on the Palestinian movement by his demise ?
The best way to address that question is to focus not on who , but on what , would replace Arafat .
In a certain sense , Arafat is the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) .
As a pro @-@ reform Fatah official put it : &quot; This is Arafat &apos;s narcissism . And we are all suffering from it .
I am afraid the Palestinian people will still be suffering from it even after his death . &quot;
Arafat &apos;s departure will leave a vacuum that no other institution or leader will be able to fill .
Indeed , Arafat has had several roles , and in each of them his stature has been unique .
While nominally the Palestinians have a collective leadership , the reality is that Arafat has overwhelming control .
He has been the Palestinian movement &apos;s sole leader almost from the day he founded it in 1959 .
Other contenders , like Abu Jihad and Abu Iyad , were assassinated , and Faisal al @-@ Husseini - the only major leader to rise to prominence within the West Bank and Gaza Strip - died young .
Arafat alone has the power to make everyone obey him , even if he often decides not to exercise this power .
Some argue that an obvious alternative to Arafat is democracy .
But the more likely outcome is an unstable and ineffective collective leadership , a division of power into fiefdoms , or a high degree of anarchy .
In a post @-@ Arafat situation , it will be much harder for any successor or successors to impose discipline and hierarchy on the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) , the PA , or Fatah .
Nor will Arafat &apos;s departure revive hopes for a political settlement with Israel .
True , Arafat &apos;s refusal to authorize crucial compromises on such matters as Israel &apos;s legitimacy and Palestine &apos;s borders has been a critical reason for the failure to resolve the Israel @-@ Palestinian or Arab @-@ Israeli conflicts .
Given Arafat &apos;s stature and control over the movement , he could have downsized the Palestinians &apos; goals to acceptance of a state in only part of historic Palestine .
But he never took the leap , and the major issues remain unresolved .
The problem is that even if future Palestinian leaders want to resolve the issues that block peace with Israel , doing so will be far more difficult than it would have been for Arafat .
Under Arafat &apos;s long rule , whole generations of Palestinians have been indoctrinated with the belief that only total victory is acceptable .
Indeed , beyond day @-@ to @-@ day policies , Arafat has constructed the Palestinian movement &apos;s intellectual and psycho @-@ political style , which is dogmatic and uncompromising .
Arafat &apos;s legacy is thus a political culture in which a leader may portray a disastrous tactic , strategy , or outcome as a victory and be believed .
So no political price is ever paid for continuing wars that cannot be won or making demands that will not be met .
The acceptance of violence without limit will be the most devastating feature of Arafat &apos;s legacy .
Many movements throughout history have used violence , but few have so thoroughly justified and romanticized it .
This problem will not go away when Arafat does .
How can someone with less legitimacy than Arafat escape this justification of violence ?
Entire groups - Hamas , Islamic Jihad , Fatah &apos;s al @-@ Aqsa Martyrs &apos; Brigades - and their leaders owe their power to their willingness to kill Israelis , which has become the ultimate measure of political virtue .
Any effort by Palestinian security authorities to put down these groups by force would lead to far more violence .
Arafat &apos;s refusal to take sides ideologically helped create an illusion of Palestinian unity , with everyone dedicated to a single Palestinian struggle .
He achieved this consensus by devaluing statehood as an end in itself , building political unity on the myth of an idealized pre @-@ 1948 Palestinian society that could be &quot; recreated &quot; on the basis of the &quot; right of return &quot; and Israel &apos;s disappearance .
These aims are never going to be realized , but they also have never been subordinated to &quot; ending the occupation , &quot; so they form the glue of Palestinian nationalism .
In today &apos;s divisive circumstances , the emergence of a new Palestinian leader will most likely take years .
During that interregnum , we should expect deadlock , anarchy , or civil war .
After Assimilation
Human migration is as old as history .
Even migration to distant places and remote cultures is nothing new .
In the nineteenth century , millions of Europeans sought liberty and prosperity in the Americas , notably in the United States .
What is new today is the scale of migration , often across huge cultural divides - and often without a definite aim .
The African boat people in the Mediterranean are often not even sure whether they want to be in Italy , Germany , or Britain .
Even those who are certain , like North Africans in Spain and France , or Turks in Germany , had as their priority escaping the hopelessness of their home countries , not arriving at a particular destination .
This modern form of migration raises massive problems for countries on the receiving end .
In Europe , it is probably the most serious social issue today , because no one has a clear idea about how to manage the resulting clash of cultures .
Once upon a time , North America , notably the US , seemed to provide the answer .
It was that of the &quot; melting pot &quot; : different peoples made their own contribution to American culture , but , above all , they made every effort to accept what they found and integrate . &quot; No , &quot; the Russian woman who came to the US in the early twentieth century replied to the grandchild who asked whether her ancestors arrived with the Pilgrims on the Mayflower .
&quot; Our ship had a different name , but now we are all Americans . &quot;
More recently , this has changed , giving rise to a process described by Arthur Schlesinger , the historian and former aide to President John F. Kennedy , in his book
Even in Israel , the last true immigration country - at least for Jews - assimilation is no longer so easy .
Recent newcomers from Russia have their own political party , and old Europeans have become a distinct minority .
Israel and America continue to have mechanisms to integrate new migrants .
Language is an important underlying factor , and in Israel , there is the army , while in America , the values embodied in the Constitution still represent a shared secular faith .
But these mechanisms are weakening everywhere , and are virtually non @-@ existent in European countries .
Modern societies are characterized by acute problems of belonging .
They don &apos;t offer the implicit , unconscious ties of community that citizens felt in the past .
As a result , people have begun to cling to other , more primordial group identities .
They resist assimilation , fearing that it will rob them of their identity without offering a new one .
What then is the alternative to assimilation ?
The &quot; salad bowl &quot; of so @-@ called multiculturalism is no real alternative , because it does not provide the necessary glue that binds communities together .
All the ingredients remain separate from the outset .
The only viable alternative for which there are examples is probably that of London or New York .
The main characteristic of this alternative is the coexistence of a common public sphere shared by all and a considerable degree of cultural separation in the &quot; private &quot; sphere , notably in residential areas .
The public space is multicultural in terms of people &apos;s backgrounds , but is governed by agreed values , even a common language , whereas the people &apos;s private lives are - to use an ugly word - ghettoized .
In theory , this is a distinctly second @-@ best solution to the cultural consequences of migration ; in practice it is the best answer we have .
But it cannot be had for nothing .
Even the necessary minimum of a common language requires a deliberate effort , to say nothing of certain rules of behavior .
Living in London , I marvel at the way in which we Londoners have come to terms with Indian family shops and West Indian @-@ run public transport , while not asking many questions about whole districts that are Bangladeshi or Chinese .
No one has yet found a name for this new version of the &quot; separate but equal &quot; doctrine that some of us fought so hard against in the 1960 &apos;s : separate private lives in a common public space that is equal for all .
This is clearly easier in London and New York than it is in smaller towns or even in the capitals of countries where the world language of English is not spoken .
Berlin &apos;s Turkish community and the North African communities around Paris seem increasingly separate , with their own public sphere and often language .
Where this happens , an explosive condition can arise , a kind of separatism within , not by historically separate groups but by newcomers against natives .
If we are forced to abandon the hope of assimilation , our efforts should concentrate on creating a public space to which all contribute and that all enjoy .
Ideally , this should be an expanding public space , for in the end , the element of unity in a modern society is the guarantee of its citizens &apos; liberty .
After Austerity
NEW YORK - This year &apos;s annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund made clear that Europe and the international community remain rudderless when it comes to economic policy .
Financial leaders , from finance ministers to leaders of private financial institutions , reiterated the current mantra : the crisis countries have to get their houses in order , reduce their deficits , bring down their national debts , undertake structural reforms , and promote growth .
Confidence , it was repeatedly said , needs to be restored .
It is a little precious to hear such pontifications from those who , at the helm of central banks , finance ministries , and private banks , steered the global financial system to the brink of ruin - and created the ongoing mess .
Worse , seldom is it explained how to square the circle .
How can confidence be restored as the crisis economies plunge into recession ?
How can growth be revived when austerity will almost surely mean a further decrease in aggregate demand , sending output and employment even lower ?
This we should know by now : markets on their own are not stable .
Not only do they repeatedly generate destabilizing asset bubbles , but , when demand weakens , forces that exacerbate the downturn come into play .
Unemployment , and fear that it will spread , drives down wages , incomes , and consumption - and thus total demand .
Decreased rates of household formation - young Americans , for example , are increasingly moving back in with their parents - depress housing prices , leading to still more foreclosures .
States with balanced @-@ budget frameworks are forced to cut spending as tax revenues fall - an automatic destabilizer that Europe seems mindlessly bent on adopting .
There are alternative strategies .
Some countries , like Germany , have room for fiscal maneuver .
Using it for investment would enhance long @-@ term growth , with positive spillovers to the rest of Europe .
A long @-@ recognized principle is that balanced expansion of taxes and spending stimulates the economy ; if the program is well designed ( taxes at the top , combined with spending on education ) , the increase in GDP and employment can be significant .
Europe as a whole is not in bad fiscal shape ; its debt @-@ to @-@ GDP ratio compares favorably with that of the United States .
If each US state were totally responsible for its own budget , including paying all unemployment benefits , America , too , would be in fiscal crisis .
The lesson is obvious : &amp; # 160 ; the whole is more than the sum of its parts .
If Europe - particularly the European Central Bank - were to borrow , and re @-@ lend the proceeds , the costs of servicing Europe &apos;s debt would fall , creating room for the kinds of expenditure that would promote growth and employment .
There are already institutions within Europe , such as the European Investment Bank , that could help finance needed investments in the cash @-@ starved economies .
The EIB should expand its lending .
There need to be increased funds available to support small and medium @-@ size enterprises - the main source of job creation in all economies - which is especially important , given that credit contraction by banks hits these enterprises especially hard .
Europe &apos;s single @-@ minded focus on austerity is a result of a misdiagnosis of its problems .
Greece overspent , but Spain and Ireland had fiscal surpluses and low debt @-@ to @-@ GDP ratios before the crisis .
Giving lectures about fiscal prudence is beside the point .
Taking the lectures seriously - &amp; # 160 ; even adopting tight budget frameworks - &amp; # 160 ; can be counterproductive .
Regardless of whether Europe &apos;s problems are temporary or fundamental - the eurozone , for example , is far from an &quot; optimal &quot; currency area , and tax competition in a free @-@ trade and free @-@ migration area can erode a viable state - austerity will make matters worse .
The consequences of Europe &apos;s rush to austerity will be long @-@ lasting and possibly severe .
If the euro survives , it will come at the price of high unemployment and enormous suffering , especially in the crisis countries .
And the crisis itself almost surely will spread .
Firewalls won &apos;t work , if kerosene is simultaneously thrown on the fire , as Europe seems committed to doing : there is no example of a large economy - and Europe is the world &apos;s largest - recovering as a result of austerity .
As a result , society &apos;s most valuable asset , its human capital , is being wasted and even destroyed .
Young people who are long deprived of a decent job - and youth unemployment in some countries is approaching or exceeding 50 % , and has been unacceptably high since 2008 - become alienated .
When they eventually find work , it will be at a much lower wage .
Normally , youth is a time when skills get built up ; now , it is a time when they atrophy .
So many economies are vulnerable to natural disasters - earthquakes , floods , typhoons , hurricanes , tsunamis - &amp; # 160 ; that adding a man @-@ made disaster is all the more tragic .
But that is what Europe is doing .
Indeed , its leaders &quot; willful ignorance of the lessons of the past is criminal .
The pain that Europe , especially its poor and young , is suffering is unnecessary .
Fortunately , there is an alternative .
But delay in grasping it will be very costly , and Europe is running out of time .
After Chernobyl
KIEV : Chernobyl , the world &apos;s most notorious nuclear power plant , will be shut down today , fourteen years after it spewed clouds of radioactive dust into the atmosphere .
Back then , Ukraine became the focus of global attention , but Ukrainians learned of the disaster much later than the rest of the world .
I recall that fateful Saturday afternoon with utter clarity , strolling through Kiev with my six @-@ year @-@ old daughter , oblivious to the danger .
Chernobyl changed Ukraine forever , and was a catalyst for the downfall of the Soviet Union .
Ultimately , Chernobyl changed the world .
Now that Chernobyl will be permanently shut down , world attention again turns to Ukraine , this time in hope , not fear .
Shutting down a vital source of electrical energy , which Chernobyl remains , is no an easy task , particularly with winter upon us .
Ukraine &apos;s energy infrastructure is weak ; losing 8 @-@ 10 % of our electricity production and $ 100 million in revenues will strain the system even more .
We also bear the responsibilities involved in laying off Chernobyl &apos;s workers and depriving the adjacent city of Slavutych ( population 28,000 ) , of its main source of income .
Moreover , we must continue dealing with the technical and ecological issues surrounding the Chernobyl sarcophagus , as well as maintain nuclear safety in the remaining nuclear plants in operation in Ukraine , including what is left of Chernobyl .
In recent years , Ukraine alone financed all the costs of dealing with the Chernobyl disaster , consistently spending 5 @-@ 10 % of our state budget revenues to this end .
Dealing with the aftermath of the disaster will remain a financial burden even with the plant closed .
Yet closing the plant proves that we keep our promises .
We committed to shut down Chernobyl this year in an agreement with the G @-@ 7 countries and the European Commission .
Closure of the last remaining reactor at Chernobyl , I believe , must mark the beginning of a new phase of cooperation with the European Union and G @-@ 7 countries .
Closing Chernobyl may be the most dramatic , but it is only a single episode in our reform efforts .
When we gained independence , the world expected great things from Ukraine .
Over the course of a decade , the world appeared to forget about us .
Now we finally have a chance to break out of the downward spiral of economic decline .
At long last , our society and economy are set on the path to growth and development .
After pro @-@ reform forces secured victory in last year &apos;s presidential elections , all of the branches of government began cooperating to entrench democracy and the market economy in Ukraine .
For the first time since independence , Ukraine recorded growth in industrial output of 12.5 % in the first 11 months of 2000 , and GDP has grown by 5.4 % this year .
Tough decisions were made , not least involving the energy sector .
Barter payments , -- which stifled the energy market -- were eliminated . So too tax breaks and other privileges that skewed the playing field in favor of a select few .
We are also doing everything possible to make Ukraine attractive to foreign investors .
In the energy sector , we are privatizing state @-@ owned energy distributors .
To ensure complete transparency in the tender process , and eliminate problems experienced in the past , Western advisors are assisting us .
For our intention is to attract large Western energy companies with experience in this field as strategic investors .
Ten leading international energy companies , indeed , will participate in the privatization of the first group of companies .
By the end of next year , we will privatize 12 additional energy companies .
In its sheer scale , this may be the largest single energy privatization ever attempted in Europe .
Our energy companies service a territory the size of France ; they will all be privatized .
Of course , these reforms are resisted , primarily by the oligarchs who thrive on a lack of transparency and use privileged access to state resources to enhance their business interests .
By eliminating barter and requiring monetary payment , we curtailed their opportunities to profit at the state &apos;s expense .
Although we can and will continue the fight against corruption , we cannot do everything alone .
International support for our efforts is crucial .
A positive sign here is the recent decision by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development ( EBRD ) to provide $ 215 million to complete the nuclear power stations at Rivne and Khmelnytsky , which will compensate for the loss of Chernobyl &apos;s generating capacity .
Euroatom is also helping with a loan of $ 585 million to finance repairs at Ukraine &apos;s functioning nuclear power plants .
In return , Ukraine will uphold its end of the deal : in addition to closing Chernobyl , we will introduce Western nuclear safety standards and renew cooperation with the IMF via the Extended Fund Facility program .
We still need other potential creditors to confirm their involvement .
Closing Chernobyl will not eliminate the Chernobyl threat .
Our people will be unable to live on thousands of acres of contaminated earth for hundreds of years .
The concrete sarcophagus built over the destroyed reactor must be renovated .
We are grateful to all the donor countries who , with contributions from our own state budget , helped raise the $ 760 million needed to make the sarcophagus safer .
In the end , Chernobyl &apos;s legacy does not belong solely to Ukraine , for ours is a country located in the heart of Europe .
We are a European nation .
We realize that no one will implement reforms for us .
The West can , however , help speed up and facilitate our efforts , as it did with the closure of Chernobyl .
Cooperation between Ukraine and the West , without a disaster to concentrate everyone &apos;s minds , will benefit all concerned .
After Dictatorship
The war in Iraq had barely begun when the minds of those who conceived the invasion turned to what should happen after the victory over Saddam Hussein &apos;s regime @-@ a victory everyone assumed to be inevitable .
Politicians and experts have invariably sought to draw comparisons with recent examples like Afghanistan , Sierra Leone , East Timor , but also with more remote and fundamental cases .
After all , what is expected in Iraq is the fall of a highly ideological dictatorship .
Is there anything we can learn from the last examples of this kind , from the collapse of communism in Eastern Europe in 1989 , or the end of the Third Reich in Germany in 1945 and the process of &quot; de @-@ Nazification &quot; that followed ?
The risks of such comparisons are almost too obvious for words .
Every case has its own defining features .
Regarding the demise of communism , the experiences of , say , Poland and Romania are profoundly different .
As we cross even more profound cultural boundaries , comparisons become still less relevant .
Yet there are a few issues that are common to the unraveling of most ideological dictatorships .
One such issue has to do with memory , and dealing with the past .
This is connected with a practical question : who is in a position to build a new country on the ruins of the old regime ?
It is rare for a counter @-@ elite to emerge quickly , much less for an elite @-@ in @-@ waiting to take over .
In Germany in the 1950s , there were many complaints about old Nazis reappearing in a democratic guise and occupying important positions .
Many of us fought against the apparent &quot; restoration &quot; of the old regime .
In Eastern Europe , the old leaders initially disappeared from the scene , but not for long .
Ex @-@ communists were often reincarnated politically as social democrats .
Those who had been in the resistance @-@ like Václav Havel in Prague @-@ found this hard to take .
Yet these communist apparatchiks were not the same people they had been .
Circumstances had changed and the people with them .
This has a great deal to do with methods of dealing with the past .
Post @-@ 1945 Germany and post @-@ 1989 Poland are examples of countries that moved forward without much attention to the past .
Intellectuals complained that too little time and energy was spent on &quot; mastering &quot; the past .
They had good reasons to complain .
Indeed , after a decade or so , the need to draw clear lines and tell all , including the painful stories , became overwhelming .
But the most successful postcommunist countries moved forward first and coped with the past later .
Those who could not lift their eyes from the horrors of the past made less progress .
A second general issue has to do with priorities .
There is a natural tendency @-@ especially in Anglo @-@ Saxon countries @-@ to regard elections as the most effective institutional remedy for countries emerging from ideological dictatorships .
To be sure , elections are important ; but by themselves they do not solve problems .
Indeed , if they disappoint , the very principles on which they are based @-@ democracy and civil liberties @-@ will be discredited .
I am a strong , almost old @-@ fashioned believer in parliamentary democracy , but when it comes to situations like postwar Iraq , two other imperatives are equally pressing .
One is the need to establish an effective administration to make certain that new policies of tolerance and market economics are actually implemented .
In East European countries , this was a major problem , and it is only through accession negotiations with the European Union that such administrative reform has been assured .
The second imperative is the rule of law .
The law has a different place in different cultures , and it presents special problems in Islamic countries .
However , it is crucial that every effort be made to educate and install an impartial and incorruptible judiciary .
Judges must not only be honest , but must be seen to be so and , as such , trusted .
The process of establishing the rule of law has been difficult and has remained incomplete in most post @-@ dictatorial countries ; yet it will be a key to successful recovery in Iraq as well .
One of the key points that I emphasized in my 1990 book
This is notably the case in economic terms .
Even post @-@ War Germany &apos;s acclaimed , miracle @-@ working Economics Minister , Ludwig Erhard , was deeply unpopular in the early 1950s , because it appeared as if only a few were getting rich , while most West Germans remained poor or got poorer .
For a certain period in the process of recovery , it is simply necessary for people to keep their nerve .
Poland is a recent example of a country that achieved this feat .
It requires plausible leadership and the reasonable hope that things will get better before long .
If this time of transition goes wrong , the alternative is renewed turmoil and the victory of fundamentalists of one kind or another .
The warning &quot; Beware of the valley of tears ! &quot; is thus the one that must be taken most seriously by those responsible for rebuilding an Iraq scarred by the terrors of dictatorship and the ravages of war .
After Kyoto
The Kyoto Protocol treaty has now entered into force for the 126 nations who have joined it so far .
Now is the time to start thinking about how to engage all nations , including large emitters , in conversations about what to do after the treaty &apos;s expiration in 2012 .
This is exactly what the European Commission did recently by providing its first strategy for a post @-@ Kyoto era , which will be discussed by the European Council next March .
While the Kyoto Protocol represents only a modest reduction of carbon emissions in industrialized countries - 5.2 % between 2008 @-@ 2012 relative to 1990 levels , with varying targets for individual countries - real progress can be made in sustaining development efforts and preserving our planet .
But first , all countries must integrate climate concerns into policy planning , and improve their governance in key sectors such as energy , infrastructure , and transport .
In other words , we must act in accordance with the recognition that climate change and its effects on people in both rich and poor countries remains a threat to global security .
At the end of the day , the long @-@ term approach is likely to include a rules @-@ based system , an incentives system , and investments in technology change .
Increasingly , adaptation at the national level will be recognized as a major issue that will require appropriate funding .
Dealing with the impacts of climate change and with emission reductions should not be mutually exclusive , but complementary .
Looking ahead to the post @-@ Kyoto world offers us the chance to start a new dialogue and to look at new options on climate change .
Nations could set the more ambitious goal of limiting the long @-@ term change in the earth &apos;s temperature , and then assign emissions rights among countries in such a way that will eventually limit temperature increases to an acceptable level .
This would require increasing investments in energy research and development for new and improved technologies - a process that needs to be supported by stronger public @-@ private partnerships .
Up to now , with only 15 % of the world &apos;s population , rich countries have been responsible for more than 75 % of global carbon dioxide ( CO2 ) emissions , and thus most of the environmental damage .
However , it is the developing countries - and thus the world &apos;s poor - who are most vulnerable .
It is unrealistic to ask poor countries , where more than 1.6 billion people do not have access to clean energy and technologies , to bear the costs associated with the much needed technological change .
Working with partners , the World Bank is supporting financial strategies to assist developing countries in meeting the costs caused by climate change .
To date , over $ 1 billion dollars in Global Environment Facility ( GEF ) grants , together with about $ 8 billion in co @-@ financing , have been committed to programs related to climate change .
While the regulatory mechanisms of both Kyoto and the European Trading Scheme have contributed to the establishment of an emerging market for carbon trading , interested parties are now concerned about the immediate future .
Without a regulatory framework beyond 2012 , the window of opportunity for initiating project @-@ based transactions will close by 2006 / 2007 .
Given the long lead time between project preparation and the first benefits of emissions reductions , project developers have only a few years to act before carbon payments cease to make a meaningful contribution to project finance in the current context .
Developing infrastructure projects is a long process that requires 3 @-@ 7 years from identification , through licensing , financing , and construction , and finally to the first certification of carbon emission reductions .
Therefore , projects need to be operational at the latest by 2007 .
The World Bank has been instrumental in advancing carbon finance as a viable development tool , and in facilitating private @-@ sector participation in the market .
The Bank is focused on representing the interests of its borrowing countries , helping them to develop assets for carbon trading according to their own priorities .
But , without a commitment by governments to limit greenhouse gas emissions beyond 2012 , the carbon market will remain uncertain , and the private sector - vital to the market &apos;s success - is unlikely to expand its participation in a meaningful and sustained way .
According to a recent World Bank @-@ supported survey of companies interested in carbon finance , only one in five respondents declared that they were interested in buying post @-@ 2012 emissions reductions .
Now is the chance to look forward and enlist the global community - with no exclusions , although with differentiated responsibilities - in the pursuit of a more secure world , one that avoids the dire risks of environmental degradation and social conflict implied by inaction .
After Neoliberalism , What ?
Two decades of applying neoliberal economic policies to the developing world have yielded disappointing results .
Latin America , the region that tried hardest to implement the &quot; Washington Consensus &quot; recipes--free trade , price deregulation , and privatization--has experienced low and volatile growth , with widening inequalities .
Among the former socialist economies of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union , few have caught up with real output levels that prevailed before 1990 .
In Sub @-@ Saharan Africa , most economies failed to respond to the adjustment programs demanded by the IMF and World Bank .
The few instances of success occurred in countries that marched to their own drummers--and that are hardly poster children for neoliberalism .
China , Vietnam , India : all three violated virtually every rule in the neoliberal guidebook , even as they moved in a more market @-@ oriented direction .
It is time to abandon neoliberalism and the Washington Consensus .
But the challenge is to provide an alternative set of policy guidelines for promoting development , without falling into the trap of promulgating yet another impractical blueprint , supposedly right for all countries at all times .
The record suggests that an adequate growth program needs to be anchored in two strategies : an investment strategy designed to kick @-@ start growth in the short term , and an institution @-@ building strategy designed to provide an economy with resilience in the face of adverse shocks .
The key to investment strategy is to get domestic entrepreneurs excited about the home economy .
Encouraging foreign investment or liberalizing everything and then waiting for things to improve does not work .
An effective strategy must accomplish two tasks : encourage investment in non @-@ traditional areas , and weed out projects and investments that fail .
For this , governments must deploy both the carrot and the stick .
Learning what a country is ( or can be ) good at producing is a key challenge of economic development .
The carrot is needed because there is great social value in discovering , for example , that cut flowers , or soccer balls , or computer software can be produced at low cost , because this knowledge can orient the investments of other entrepreneurs .
The entrepreneur who makes the initial &quot; discovery &quot; can capture only a small part of the social value that this knowledge generates , as other entrepreneurs will quickly emulate him .
Consequently , entrepreneurship of this type--learning what can be produced--will typically be under @-@ supplied in the absence of non @-@ market incentives .
In turn , the stick is needed to ensure that these incentives do not lock in unproductive and wasteful investments .
Implementing such a strategy may differ from country to country , depending on administrative capacity , the prevailing incentive regime , the flexibility of the fiscal system , the degree of sophistication of the financial sector , and the underlying political economy .
Time @-@ bound subsidy schemes , public venture funds , and export subsidization are some of the ways in which this approach can be implemented , but there are many others .
No single instrument will work everywhere .
Governments without adequate capacity to exercise leadership over their private sectors are likely to mess things up rather than improve allocation of resources .
The job can be done , but economic growth requires more than eliciting a temporary boost in investment and entrepreneurship .
It also requires effort to build four types of institutions required to maintain growth momentum and build resilience to shocks :
Market @-@ creating institutions ( for property rights and contract enforcement ) ;
Market @-@ regulating institutions ( for externalities , economies of scale , and information about companies ) ;
Market @-@ stabilizing institutions ( for monetary and fiscal management ) ;
Market @-@ legitimizing institutions ( for social protection and insurance ) .
Building and solidifying these institutions , however , takes time .
Using an initial period of growth to experiment and innovate on these fronts can pay high dividends later on .
A key point here is that institutional arrangements are , by necessity , country @-@ specific .
Discovering what works in any one country requires experimentation .
After all , institutions are not hot @-@ house plants capable of being planted in any soil and climate .
Reforms that succeed in one setting may perform poorly or fail completely in others .
Such specificity helps explain why successful countries--China , India , South Korea , and Taiwan , among others--usually combined unorthodox elements with orthodox policies .
It also accounts for why important institutional differences persist among the advanced countries of North America , Western Europe , and Japan in areas such as the role of the public sector , the legal system , corporate governance , financial markets , labor markets , and social insurance .
While economic analysis can help in making institutional choices , there is also a large role for public deliberation and collective choice .
In fact , we can think of participatory democracy as a meta @-@ institution that helps select among the &quot; menu &quot; of possible institutional arrangements in each area .
Designing such a growth strategy is both harder and easier than implementing standard neoliberal policies .
It is harder because the binding constraints on growth are usually country @-@ specific and do not respond well to standardized recipes .
But it is easier because once those constraints are appropriately targeted , relatively simple policy changes can yield enormous economic payoffs and start a virtuous cycle of growth and institutional reform .
Adopting this approach does not mean abandoning mainstream economics--far from it .
Neoliberalism is to neoclassical economics as astrology is to astronomy .
In both cases , it takes a lot of blind faith to go from one to the other .
Critics of neoliberalism should not oppose mainstream economics--only its misuse .
Selepas Serangan di Paris
NEW YORK - Sejumlah serangan di Paris yang dilakukan oleh beberapa pelaku yang terkait dengan Islamic State atau ISIS ( Negara Islam Irak dan Suriah ) , yang terjadi setelah dua bom meledak di Beirut dan jatuhnya pesawat Rusia di Semenanjung Sinai , kembali menegaskan fakta bahwa ancaman teroris telah memasuki fase baru dan semakin berbahaya .
Alasan mengapa ISIS memutuskan untuk melakukan serangannya sekarang masih berupa dugaan ; barangkali ISIS memperluas terornya ke tingkat global untuk mengimbangi kehilangan wilayah mereka di Irak .
Tetapi , apapun alasannya , wajib bagi kita untuk memberi respon jelas .
Sebetulnya , tantangan yang ditimbulkan ISIS justru menjadi seruan bagi kita untuk menerapkan beberapa tindakan , sebab tidak ada kebijakan tunggal yang memadai .
Berbagai upaya perlu diterapkan di berbagai bidang .
Pertama , militer . Serangan udara yang lebih kuat untuk melemahkan aset @-@ aset militer , fasilitas minyak dan gas , dan para pemimpin ISIS sangat penting .
Meskipun demikian , serangan udara saja tidak akan cukup .
Unsur militer yang kuat di darat juga diperlukan jika ingin mengambil alih dan mempertahankan wilayah darat .
Sayangnya , kita tidak punya cukup waktu untuk membangun kekuatan gabungan di darat dari nol .
Upaya ini sudah dicoba namun gagal , dan negara @-@ negara Arab tidak mampu atau tidak mau membentuk armadanya .
Tentara Irak pun gagal memenuhi harapan .
Kelompok milisi yang didukung Iran justru memperburuk keadaan .
Pilihan terbaik adalah bekerja sama lebih erat dengan tentara Kurdi dan memilih warga dari suku Sunni di Irak dan Suriah .
Hal ini berarti menyediakan intelijen , senjata , dan kemauan untuk menugaskan lebih banyak tentara - lebih dari 3.500 tentara Amerika sudah bertugas disana dan kemungkinan akan ada penambahan 10.000 tentara - untuk melatih , memberi masukan , dan membantu mengarahkan tindakan militer .
Upaya seperti ini harus bersifat kolektif .
Bentuknya bisa informal - &quot; koalisi negara @-@ negara yang bersedia &quot; ( coalition of the willing ) yang meliputi Amerika Serikat , Perancis , Britania Raya , negara @-@ negara Arab , dan bahkan Rusia dalam kondisi yang tepat - atau dilaksanakan di bawah naungan NATO atau PBB .
Tidak masalah apapun bentuk atau kemasannya , yang penting adalah hasilnya .
Tetapi , deklarasi perang secara simbolis haruslah dipertimbangkan dengan penuh kehati @-@ hatian , jangan sampai ISIS terkesan memenangi perang ini .
Komponen diplomasi pun tidak kalah penting dibanding tindakan lainnya .
Presiden Suriah , Bashar al @-@ Assad , adalah sosok yang layaknya menjadi recruiting tools bagi ISIS dan harus dicopot dari jabatannya .
Siapapun yang meneruskan jabatan beliau harus mampu menjaga ketertiban dan melarang ISIS memanfaatkan kekosongan kekuasaan , seperti yang terjadi di Libya .
Selain itu , perubahan politik yang teratur hanya akan dimungkinkan melalui dukungan Rusia dan Iran .
Satu opsi jangka pendek yang patut dicoba adalah pembentukan pemerintah koalisi yang masih dipimpin oleh perwakilan dari kelompok minoritas Alawite , suatu persetujuan yang sepadan dengan mencopot jabatan Assad .
Secara prinsip , dan seiring berjalannya waktu , pemerintah pusat yang lebih representatif akan terbentuk , walaupun pembahasan mengenai rencana pemilihan umum dalam waktu 18 bulan ke depan nampaknya terlalu bermuluk @-@ muluk .
Mencapai suatu kompromi dalam pembentukan pemerintah hampir mustahil .
Itulah sebabnya penguatan upaya militer diperlukan untuk menjadikan daerah @-@ daerah kantong lebih aman dan luas sehingga mampu melindungi penduduk sipil dan memerangi ISIS .
Suriah bukanlah negara yang hidup dalam kondisi layak dan normal , bahkan mungkin tidak akan bisa kembali ke kondisi normal .
Negara Suriah yang terdiri dari daerah @-@ daerah kantong dan canton @-@ canton adalah bentuk yang lebih realistis di masa mendatang .
Elemen lainnya yang sangat diperlukan dalam strategi efektif apapun harus meliputi bantuan tambahan atau memberi tekanan kepada Turki untuk mengambil lebih banyak tindakan demi membendung rekrutmen ISIS .
Turki , bersama dengan Yordania dan Lebanon , memerlukan bantuan finansial lebih besar sebab mereka memikul sebagian besar beban karena persoalan pengungsi .
Pemimpin Arab dan Muslim dapat berperan dengan menyampaikan pesan untuk menantang visi ISIS dan mendelegitimasi perilaku mereka .
Aspek domestik dalam kebijakan juga diperlukan .
Keamanan dalam negeri dan penegakan hukum - meningkatkan perlindungan baik di wilayah perbatasan dan dalam negeri - harus disesuaikan dengan kenaikan tingkat ancaman .
Retail terrorists - individu atau kelompok melakukan serangan bersenjata ke kelompok rentan di masyarakat - sangat sulit diatasi .
Ancaman dan terjadinya beberapa serangan mengharuskan ketahanan sosial yang lebih kuat dan sedapat mungkin menyeimbangkan ulang antara privasi individu dan keamanan kolektif .
Kita juga perlu menerima fakta dan kenyataan yang ada .
Perjuangan melawan Negara Islam bukanlah perang konvensional .
Kita tidak bisa memberantas atau menghancurkannya dalam waktu dekat , sebab ISIS merupakan jaringan dan gagasan , serta suatu organisasi dan negara de facto yang mengendalikan wilayah dan sumber daya .
Memang , terorisme masih dan terus menjadi salah satu momok di era ini .
Meskipun demikian , kabar baiknya adalah ancaman yang diakibatkan ISIS ke Timur Tengah dan seluruh dunia dapat dikurangi secara signifikan melalui tindakan terpadu dan berkelanjutan .
Pembelajaran utama dari serangan di Paris adalah kita harus siap bertindak kapan pun dan dimanapun .
After Pax Americana ?
NEW YORK - It has become popular to suggest that when the dust settles from the global financial crisis , it may become clear that the United States @-@ led post @-@ war world has come to an end .
If so , the global system that has secured peace , security , openness , and economic growth over the past six decades could be in grave danger .
Inspired by American leadership since World War II &apos;s end , Europe , then Japan , then much of Asia and the world rose to new levels of prosperity ; the world economy globalized upon the foundation of international institutions , norms , and standards ; and foreign students educated in American universities returned home with new ideas about free markets , entrepreneurship , and democracy .
The US military &apos;s protective umbrella gave large swaths of the world a vacation from war , making it easier for them to focus on economic growth and regional integration .
America not only took the lead role in building the institutions of a globalizing world - the United Nations , World Bank , IMF , NATO- it also became the model that many other countries looked to for inspiration .
After eight years of compromised American leadership , a botched war of choice in Iraq , failure to take the lead in global efforts to address climate change , Abu Ghraib , Guantánamo Bay , running up a $ 10 trillion debt , and igniting a global financial crisis - America &apos;s once @-@ glittering model has lost a good deal of its luster and America &apos;s leadership has been questioned by many .
The point was driven home at the 7th Asia @-@ Europe Meeting ( ASEM ) in Beijing this autumn , where European and Asian leaders began exploring ideas for a new global financial structure .
For much of the past 60 years , it would have been impossible to hold such a fundamental dialogue without US participation .
Today , it is almost becoming a new global norm that neither the international committee nor the US is prepared for .
Despite talk about American decline , the world is not prepared for a post @-@ American era .
As irksome as some of America &apos;s actions have been , particularly over the past eight years , America remains the world &apos;s most critical champion of the progressive values that have lifted hundreds of millions of people out of abject poverty and political repression .
If the US were to play a relatively smaller role in world affairs , and no other system was created to pick up the slack , these values could be at risk .
Although many states now hide behind an alleged universal principle of inviolable state sovereignty , for example , would the international community really want to go back to the old model where states did whatever they wanted to their citizens within the confines of their own borders ?
Do countries around the world believe that they will be better off if the global trade system breaks down or international shipping lanes become less secure ?
Are countries like China willing to step up and pay their fair share of dues to keep the UN running ( China currently pays 2.1 % of UN dues , compared to more than 25 % for the US ) , or to capitalize revised international financial institutions or the Global Fund to Fight AIDS , Tuberculosis , and Malaria in a meaningful way ?
Unless other countries become more willing to step forward for the common good , a post @-@ American world could quickly become a far more frightening environment than what it would replace .
To make its case for a continued global leadership role , America must , however , step up to the plate . While the go @-@ it @-@ alone impulse of the Bush administration has been discredited by its consequences , the inverse lessons regarding how important collaborative action is in today &apos;s interconnected world are still being learned .
Even at the apex of American power , America &apos;s greatness was always based on inspiring others , and the opportunities for building market share in that particular category remain unlimited .
It is impossible to overestimate how significant a step Barack Obama &apos;s election is in this direction , but America &apos;s actions over the coming years will be the ultimate determinant of whether the power of America &apos;s model can be restored .
America can and should , for example , become the global leader combating climate change through major investments in alternative energy , conservation , and energy efficiency , and by taking strong actions at home to reduce America &apos;s greenhouse gas emissions . It should transform its immigration policy to recruit the best and brightest people from around the world to move to the US and become citizens , and remain the world &apos;s leading champion of open markets , especially during the current financial crisis .
Closing the prison at Guantánamo and reaffirming America &apos;s commitment to international law and human rights will also be an important step in this direction .
The world wants to believe in an America that lives up to its own best values .
The prospect of a truly global community of nations working together to achieve the greater good for all is indeed exciting .
But , although America has been far from perfect over the last six decades , the end of the
If the world is going to shift in the direction of a new and more globally democratic system , other nations will need to meaningfully step forward to assume new responsibilities .
It is in America &apos;s and the world &apos;s interest that they do so . The evidence of this will be seen not only in global institutions but also in places like Darfur , Zimbabwe , and Burma .
Until this happens , let us all hope that America can get back on track as the global champion of collaborative action to address the world &apos;s greatest challenges and work with as many other countries as possible to move collectively in the right direction .
After the Dear Leader
SEOUL - Korea is a unique country .
The Cold War ended when the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991 , and is now remembered only as history to most people around the world .
The Korean Peninsula , however , remains divided along ideological lines , and the two Koreas co @-@ exist as living remnants of the Cold War .
A total of almost 1.5 million young soldiers from both North and South Korea face off against each across the heavily armed Demilitarized Zone .
Events and structural forces , however , have affected and changed the nature of the North Korean system since 1991 .
The sudden discontinuation of the supply of petroleum and natural resources from Russia in the early 1990 &quot; s , the failure of the centrally @-@ planned economy , and the subsequent massive famine in the mid @-@ 1990 &quot; s left North Korea &apos;s leaders no alternative but to tolerate informal market activities .
Nowadays , every North Korean seems to like money and know its value .
The engagement policy pursued by the South Korean government in recent years also contributed to changes in North Koreans &quot; perceptions of the outside world and of their own abject economic situation .
In these desperate circumstances , North Korea &apos;s leaders clung to their strategy of developing nuclear weapons as a last resort to defend the security of their regime .
But , regardless of whether the nuclear issue is resolved , the spread of market forces in North Korea will continue to change every aspect of life there in the coming years .
Nobody yet knows what the political consequences of these economic changes will be .
So , even before the recent reports of North Korean leader Kim Jong @-@ il &apos;s health problems , North Korea was already a country marked by growing uncertainty .
Nevertheless , the reports about Kim &apos;s ill health hit like a rude wake @-@ up call about the precarious nature of conditions in North Korea .
The &quot; Dear Leader &apos;s &quot; declining health will add even more uncertainty and may cause international instability across East Asia .
For example , Kim Il Sung groomed his son Kim Jong @-@ il as his successor for about two decades before the younger Kim took power in 1994 .
Kim Jong @-@ il , however , has not yet even chosen his successor .
Indeed , it is widely expected that a new system of collective leadership will emerge if Kim Jong @-@ il is incapacitated .
The problem is that North Korea has no experience with collective leadership .
In the last six decades , all power has been concentrated in the hands of one person .
One @-@ man rule has been so completely embedded in North Korea &apos;s political culture and system that it is difficult to expect collective leadership to succeed .
Thus , some type of power struggle , rather like what occurred in the Soviet Union following Stalin &apos;s death , may invariably follow a brief period of collective rule .
The dilemma for the world is that major decisions will have to be made during this period of instability .
Will the North &apos;s would @-@ be leaders be able to manage the country &apos;s stock of nuclear weapons responsibly and safely without transferring a few of them abroad , much less respond to international pressure to dismantle them in a reasonable and flexible manner ?
Over the past decade , Kim Jong @-@ il has emphasized the importance of his military @-@ first policy .
As a result , the army will be dominant in decision making on important issues like nuclear negotiations .
But the problem with military rule is a tendency toward incomplete understanding of the implications of political decisions - a problem that will be aggravated further by collective leadership .
Under a North Korean collective leadership dominated by the military , the power of the country &apos;s economic bureaucrats will be marginal , at best .
This may lead to suppression of pressure from below for economic reform and opening .
As a result , the economy may worsen and political instability increase .
In such a difficult domestic situation , North Korea &apos;s leaders may adopt more hostile policies to obtain economic aid from both South Korea and the United States .
Recently , South Korea &apos;s government made it clear that it would continue to engage North Korea , but in a more principled way than had previous administrations .
This reflects a hardening of South Korean public opinion , following North Korea &apos;s nuclear test in 2006 .
As a result of this policy shift - and the recent killing of a South Korean tourist in North Korea &apos;s Kumgang Mountains - official dialogue between North and South has stopped for the past several months .
International relations in northeast Asia will become more subtle and unstable as the Kim Jong @-@ il era ends .
After six turbulent but somewhat predictable decades , we may be entering into a new era of greater turbulence but less predictability on the Korean Peninsula .
After the Death of Utopia
A decade ago , people spoke of the end of history , meaning the ultimate triumph of a liberal capitalist political order .
Nowadays , many scoff at that notion as too simplistic .
Nonetheless , we are at both the end and beginning of something remarkable .
In the wake of the death of the utopian - and often bloody - certainties of the 19th and 20th centuries ( Communism &apos;s collapse was but the latest spectacular example ) , and with fading belief in the liberal welfare state , traditional views about work , retirement , education , the Church , solidarity , and other social institutions are changing rapidly .
The central driver of all this is today &apos;s enormous acceleration in the underlying pace of technological and economic change .
Call it fast @-@ forward modernization .
Of course , the worldwide crash of high @-@ tech stocks in 2000 chilled the hype about a &quot; new economy &quot; that seemed to be emerging at the &quot; end of history . &quot;
But falling share prices should not blind us to the fact that on top of the ongoing information revolution , three fresh waves of revolutionary technology are poised to hit : bio @-@ technology ( including new medical technologies and genetic engineering , such as the creation of human embryos through cloning ) , nanotechnology , and robotics .
Each is its own industrial revolution , and will profoundly alter our lives and ways of thinking .
Indeed , the revolution is already upon us .
For the first time in history , a global techno @-@ market order is transforming the world of finance , business , politics and , indeed , physiology , beyond recognition .
This new techno @-@ market system is shaped and characterized by a belief in the increasing importance of knowledge , new ideas , innovations and new technologies , and a higher pace of what the economist Joseph Schumpeter famously called &quot; creative destruction . &quot;
As a result , corporate capitalism is rapidly becoming obsolete , replaced by a creative capitalism in which entrepreneurship , combined with a greater willingness to adopt innovations , transforms the business landscape .
Innovative start @-@ up firms become huge companies faster than ever before .
But these infant giants are quickly threatened with eclipse by even newer enterprises .
Take the example of computers .
It took 15 years for other countries to compete successfully with America &apos;s Silicon Valley in semi @-@ conductors , but less than five years in Internet technology .
This system provides unprecedented financial incentives to scientists and entrepreneurs to aggressively develop new technologies and thus become rich .
But the revolution is not only for the elite ; it also offers a realistic ( non @-@ utopian ) promise of dramatically improved lives for many people around the entire globe - not in 100 years , but in the foreseeable future .
We are not
These changes are also triggering changes in human consciousness .
The result is a litany of &quot; post @-@ utopian &quot; values that include a stronger emphasis on individual freedom and personal responsibility .
In this world without utopia , individual freedom is the supreme value .
But , as with any change of such magnitude , there are holdouts .
Indeed , politics everywhere now seems dominated by the &quot; war of lifestyles &quot; that has emerged from today &apos;s emphasis on individual autonomy .
Not so long ago , issues such as the environment , the balance of work versus leisure in daily life , and the role of marriage , abortion , and other family concerns were secondary political disputes , as politicians fought over who would receive what share of a nation &apos;s wealth .
Now these issues define domestic political agendas .
Much of the new battle over lifestyles is undoubtedly misunderstood , perhaps because debates about them are conducted in a simplistic way : anti @-@ global movements versus multi @-@ nationals , environmentalists versus corporate polluters , small farmers versus agro @-@ business , and so on . But , beyond slogans , there is an underlying fault line between those who have the cultural capacity to embrace change and those who resist it by adhering to traditional ideas about how one &apos;s life and , by extension , society , should be organized .
This conflict exists globally .
In societies that have been preparing themselves by opening their markets and embracing universal education , the disruptions of this revolution can probably be absorbed and handled .
Conflict is most acute in closed societies characterized by a politically repressive climate and culturally induced obstacles to growth .
Such obstacles include the absence of an informed and capable workforce , instinctive mistrust and rejection of new ideas and technologies just because they come from the West , lack of respect for those who acquire new knowledge , and endemic discrimination against women .
The new battle of lifestyles has given rise to new enemies of open societies , such as the Taliban and Al Qaeda .
It is no coincidence that terrorism thrives in societies that are intrinsically hostile to today &apos;s modernizing values and belief in individual autonomy .
So long as these ideas clash , violence will lurk .
To defend post @-@ utopian values in the longer @-@ term , politicians ( and generals and spymasters ) cannot seek security by drastically curtailing fundamental freedoms , because to do so risks forfeiting public support and a weakening of the pillars of the post @-@ utopian market order .
In challenging groups like Al Qaeda , they must understand that they are engaged in a war of ideas ; winning the hearts - and the lifestyles - of societies is the only way to win that battle .
After the God that Failed
Discussing morality and politics , it is said , is like discussing vegetarianism with cannibals .
Much of the public , it seems , thinks this way--for good reason .
Moral principles and moral obligations in today &apos;s political / economical realm have undoubtedly gone astray , unashamedly displaced by the interests of profit and power .
The implications are clear .
In today &apos;s world , &quot; order &quot; reflects a balance of interests that is maintained mainly by force--be it military or financial .
But something other than this &quot; order of the barracks &quot; is possible .
Think of it as the order of the church choir , where individual members cooperate on the basis of a shared culture and values .
One reason for the complete absence of values in &quot; power politics &quot; nowadays is that leaders get away with speaking words whose true meaning they leave out of their policies .
Moreover , secular spiritual leaders like Gandhi , Schweitzer , and King have vanished , annihilated it seems by our new fetishes--success , expediency , gain , and special interests .
Of course , the so @-@ called civilized world never managed to create a living utopia .
Efforts to do so usually ended disastrously .
As someone born in the old Soviet Union , I know firsthand the despair and brutality of such attempts .
This does not mean that all efforts to build a more moral world are doomed .
Having survived an age of extreme ideologies , such as capitalism , communism , and , recently , market fundamentalism , most people no longer seek answers in ideological clichés and the driving , purifying force of political certainty .
Forced harmonization is dead , which opens the door to making new voluntary forms of social harmony possible .
Let me suggest five steps necessary to begin to bring this about .
The first calls for the world to deem as utterly unacceptable state violence that seeks to impose conformity and discipline .
Such violence is unjust on its face because it suppresses and intimidates both body and spirit .
To achieve this end , however , the state must be stripped of its ability to impose divisive dogmas , traditions , and stereotypes .
That can happen only if a carefully crafted system of &quot; checks and balances &quot; is established , in which powerful organized interests--states , above all--are restrained in their efforts at dominance .
Not only political forces need to be checked .
In the rush to concentrate wealth , for example , majority owners of corporations must not be allowed to harm the interests of minority shareholders , who as a rule are honest common citizens .
This leads me to my second reform priority : a systemic separation of state power and capital .
Even in long @-@ established democracies , candidates for elective office are not evaluated according to their wisdom and leadership , but according to the size of their campaign war chests .
Acquiring government power through possession of capital--and converting it into unjust economic rents--must be curtailed .
Can such a boundary between power and capital be set ?
Yes .
I say this as someone who created significant capital and , having done so , changed her occupation in order to cultivate morality in politics .
Laws can make the separation of capital and political power transparent for all to see .
But the will to achieve this division is , sadly , absent among most people in power .
Related to this , it is necessary to separate mass media from both power and the interests of capital .
In Europe , America , and Japan , media ownership is increasingly concentrated , which rightly worries citizens in these countries , particularly when media owners move from forming opinion to forming governments .
How much more worrying , then , is such concentrated ownership in new democracies and developing countries , where the check of civil society is mostly absent ?
All these reforms presuppose an independent judiciary .
The autonomy of judges must be assured , which requires that their character is such that people trust their decisions .
In states where justice is bought by the rich and powerful , this may impossible , but individual judges can and do stand up to power .
All citizens should support such judicial stalwarts , for their example can refashion an entire justice system .
In essence , creating a more moral political order requires the removal of money as
Of course my proposed &quot; transformations &quot; may sound too good to be possible .
In defense I wish to cite the great Harvard philosopher John Rawls , who died recently .
Theory , no matter how elegant , Rawls argued , should be dismissed or revised when proven untrue .
The corollary to this is that institutions and even world orders--no matter how efficient and successful--must be reformed if they are unjust .
Perhaps only someone who comes from one of the post @-@ Soviet states can conceive of politics in terms of original principles in the manner of Rawls .
Our newborn states were given the opportunity to create moral political systems on the ruins of a &quot; god that failed . &quot;
The struggle to do so has been mighty , but despite our travails--and our poverty--I believe that my country has the strength to contribute creatively to this endeavour .
After the Golden Age of Finance
LONDON - Even after the passage of new financial regulations in the United States , the Dodd @-@ Frank Act , and the publication of the Basel Committee &apos;s new capital requirements , the financial sector &apos;s prospects over the next few years remain highly uncertain .
There has been some recovery in prices for bank shares from the lows of 2008 , of course , but that rally faltered recently .
Quite apart from their concerns about the robustness of the rebound in the economy , investors are uncertain about many financial firms &quot; business models , and about the future size , shape , and profitability of the financial sector in general .
After all , banks remain deeply unpopular in all developed countries .
Bankers are still social pariahs , as lowly valued by the public as drug dealers or journalists .
They are reviled if they lose money , and assailed if they make it .
For banks and their shareholders , it looks a case of heads they win , tails we lose . Thus , as banks return to profitability , politicians in North America and Europe have begun to talk again about new taxes that would skim those profits off to the benefit of taxpayers , whose support kept banks in business at the height of the crisis .
This is a huge contrast with the financial sector &apos;s position in the previous three decades .
From the late 1970 &quot; s until 2007 , the financial sector grew far more rapidly than the real economy .
In 1980 , financial assets - stocks , bonds , and bank deposits - totaled around 100 % of GDP in the advanced economies .
By 2007 , the figure was over 400 % in the US , the United Kingdom , and Japan .
During this period , credit expanded rapidly as a share of GDP , reaching more than 300 % at the peak .
In the UK , the profits of financial intermediaries , which had averaged around 1.5 % of the whole economy &apos;s profits in the 1970 &quot; s , reached 15 % in 2008 .
In the US , bank profits were an even larger share of the total .
This was the golden age of finance .
Bankers &quot; pay soared alongside profits - indeed , it grew even faster .
To paraphrase William Wordsworth , bliss was it in that dawn to be alive , and to be a derivatives trader was very heaven .
But the expansion came to a shuddering halt in 2008 , the first year in decades in which aggregate financial assets fell , and there is still little sign of a sustained recovery .
Is this a short @-@ term phenomenon ?
Will the financial sector return to pre @-@ crisis growth rates when the economic situation has been fully stabilized ?
Will financial &quot; deepening &quot; continue ?
Will bank stocks once again outperform the market ?
A recent study by Andy Haldane and others at the Bank of England casts doubt on the prospect of a return to the status quo ante .
They note that the Golden Age was in fact an unusual period , if you look at the last two centuries of economic history .
Haldane bases his analysis on the trend in the Gross Value Added ( GVA ) of the financial sector .
Over the last 160 years , the GVA of finance has grown by two percentage points a year faster than that of the economy as a whole .
But this excess growth has not been evenly spread .
During the two decades leading up to World War I , the financial sector grew almost four times faster than the economy , in the first wave of financial deepening and globalization , but from 1918 until the 1970 &quot; s , finance expanded less rapidly than average economic growth .
Only when markets were deregulated and liberalized from the early 1970 &quot; s onwards did finance once again leap ahead .
In the US , financial sector GVA was only 2 % of the total in the 1950s , but stands at 8 % today .
Haldane believes that this growth spurt is well and truly over .
He argues that much of the apparent growth in value added has in fact been illusory , based on increased leverage , excess trading , and banks writing deep out @-@ of @-@ the @-@ money options - for example , credit @-@ default swaps ( a $ 60 trillion market in 2007 ) . &quot; What all these strategies had in common , &quot; writes Haldane , &quot; was that they involved banks assuming risk in the hunt for yield - risk that was often disguised because it was parked in the tail of the return distribution . &quot;
From a regulator &apos;s perspective , this is a powerful argument for requiring higher capital to constrain the risk that banks can take on .
Indeed , the Basel Committee plans to require more capital in the future , though the new requirements will be delayed , owing to concerns about the cost and availability of credit to sustain the recovery .
Against that background , it is hard to believe that we will quickly return to the heady growth in financial assets , credit , and risk we saw from the 1970 &quot; s to 2007 .
Financial @-@ sector returns are likely to be lower .
Returns of 20 % on equity targets are a thing of the past .
And lower profitability will reduce pay more effectively than any direct regulatory controls .
For most of us , unless we remain seriously overweight in financial stocks , this may not be a bad prospect .
We do not want to inflate another asset @-@ price bubble on the scale of the one that burst in 2007 @-@ 2008 .
But there is a risk for regulators and central banks .
If they over @-@ constrain the financial sector , risk may migrate outside the regulatory frontier , where it will be harder to measure and monitor .
That is why it is important to maintain some flexibility , to allow currently unregulated institutions like hedge funds and private @-@ equity funds to be swept into the regulatory net if they become large and systemically important .
The tighter their controls on risk in banks , the more frontier police the regulators will need .
After the Greek Default
CAMBRIDGE - The Greek government , the European Commission , and the International Monetary Fund are all denying what markets perceive clearly : Greece will eventually default on its debts to its private and public creditors .
The politicians prefer to postpone the inevitable by putting public money where private money will no longer go , because doing so allows creditors to maintain the fiction that the accounting value of the Greek bonds that they hold need not be reduced .
That , in turn , avoids triggering requirements of more bank capital .
But , even though the additional loans that Greece will soon receive from the European Union and the IMF carry low interest rates , the level of Greek debt will rise rapidly to unsustainable levels .
That &apos;s why market interest rates on privately held Greek bonds and prices for credit @-@ default swaps indicate that a massive default is coming .
And a massive default , together with a very large sustained cut in the annual budget deficit , is , in fact , needed to restore Greek fiscal sustainability .
More specifically , even if a default brings the country &apos;s debt down to 60 % of GDP , Greece would still have to reduce its annual budget deficit from the current 10 % of GDP to about 3 % if it is to prevent the debt ratio from rising again .
In that case , Greece should be able to finance its future annual government deficits from domestic sources alone .
But fiscal sustainability is no cure for Greece &apos;s chronically large trade deficit .
Greece &apos;s imports now exceed its exports by more than 4 % of its GDP , the largest trade deficit among eurozone member countries .
If that trade gap persists , Greece will have to borrow the full amount from foreign lenders every year in the future , even if the post @-@ default budget deficits could be financed by borrowing at home .
Eliminating or reducing this trade gap without depressing economic activity and employment in Greece requires that the country export more and import less .
That , in turn , requires making Greek goods and services more competitive relative to those of the country &apos;s trading partners .
A country with a flexible currency can achieve that by allowing the exchange rate to depreciate .
But Greece &apos;s membership in the eurozone makes that impossible .
So Greece faces the difficult task of lowering the prices of its goods and services relative to those in other countries by other means , namely a large cut in the wages and salaries of Greek private @-@ sector employees .
But , even if that could be achieved , it would close the trade gap only for as long as Greek prices remained competitive .
To maintain price competitiveness , the gap between Greek wage growth and the rise in Greek productivity - i.e. , output per employee hour - must not be greater than the gap in other eurozone countries .
That will not be easy .
Greece &apos;s trade deficit developed over the past decade because Greek prices have been rising faster than those of its trading partners .
And that has happened precisely because wages have been rising faster in Greece , relative to productivity growth , than in other eurozone countries .
To see why it will be difficult for Greece to remain competitive , assume that the rest of the eurozone experiences annual productivity gains of 2 % , while monetary policy limits annual price inflation to 2 % .
In that case , wages in the rest of the eurozone can rise by 4 % a year .
But if productivity in Greece rises at just 1 % , Greek wages can increase at only 3 % .
Any higher rate would cause Greek prices to rise more rapidly than those of its eurozone trading partners .
So Greece faces a triple challenge : the fiscal challenge of cutting its government debt and future deficits ; the price @-@ level challenge of reducing its prices enough to wipe out the current trade gap ; and the wage @-@ productivity challenge of keeping future wage growth below the eurozone average or raising its productivity growth rate .
Ever since the Greek crisis began , the country has shown that it cannot solve its problems as the IMF and the European Commission had hoped .
The countries that faced similar problems in other parts of the world always combined fiscal contractions with currency devaluations , which membership in a monetary union rules out .
A temporary leave of absence from the eurozone would allow Greece to achieve a price @-@ level decline relative to other eurozone countries , and would make it easier to adjust the relative price level if Greek wages cannot be limited .
The Maastricht treaty explicitly prohibits a eurozone country from leaving the euro , but says nothing about a temporary leave of absence ( and therefore doesn &apos;t prohibit one ) .
It is time for Greece , other eurozone members , and the European Commission to start thinking seriously about that option .
After the Guns of August
The Middle East is a place where the dust hardly ever settles .
When it occasionally does , even for a short interval - as UN Resolution 1701 for cessation of hostilities in Lebanon seems to be holding - it is time to take stock of events in the hopes that a responsible debate may influence those in power .
Let &apos;s start with the United States .
President George W. Bush has been short on neither initiatives nor catchy slogans and acronyms .
Recent years are littered with them : &quot; Global War on Terror &quot; ( GWOT ) , &quot; Road Map , &quot; &quot; Middle East Partnership Initiative &quot; ( MEPI ) , &quot; Broader Middle East and North Africa &quot; ( BMENA ) - originally &quot; Greater Middle East Initiative ( GMEI ) - Democracy Assisted Dialogue ( DAD ) , and so on .
His latest reverie , envisioned in the thick of the recent fighting between Israel and Hezbollah , was the New Middle East ( NME ) , with US clients Israel , Egypt , Jordan , and Saudi Arabia serving as the pillars of regional order .
But like all his previous initiatives since the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington almost five years ago now , the NME ran into trouble from the outset .
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice announced its birth while rejecting an immediate ceasefire in Lebanon .
Her poor timing made the initiative appear heartless , as thousands of civilians were being uprooted , killed , or maimed by Israel &apos;s efficient but ruthless artillery and air force .
This so embarrassed the three Arab NME partners that each raced to distance itself from the US @-@ sponsored initiative .
Saudi Arabia , which had remained silent for nearly two weeks , did so with a $ 500 million contribution to rebuilding devastated areas of Lebanon and another billion to support Lebanon &apos;s threatened currency .
Egypt &apos;s heir apparent Gamal Mubarak followed suit in the fourth week of the fighting by heading a 70 @-@ member delegation on a solidarity visit to Beirut .
But , rather than earning him the respect of an outraged Egyptian public , revelations in the opposition press that his plane had to obtain a safe passage and authority to land from the Israelis garnered only howls of derision .
As for America , anything it touches in the Middle East has become radioactive , even for longstanding clients and friends .
In the course of maneuvering to delay the UN ceasefire , Bush and Rice continually reiterated the need for a Security Council resolution that deals forcefully with &quot; the roots of the problem . &quot;
Of course , for them and for Israel , this was Hezbollah and the need to eradicate or at a minimum disarm it and force its fighters to a safe distance from settlements and towns in northern Israel .
While this is a reasonable demand , the rest of the Middle East - and , indeed , much of the world , including Europe - regard the root cause of the conflict as Israeli intransigence and arrogance , together with America &apos;s blind support for it .
Both America and Israel have cited foot @-@ dragging in implementing UN Resolution 1559 , which calls for disarming all non @-@ state actors in Lebanon and the deployment of government forces all the way to the southern border .
But for years the US and Israel have not uttered a word about the dozens of UN resolutions , going back as far as Resolution 49 on partition in 1947 , which called for the establishment of distinct Arab and Jewish states on roughly half of Mandated Palestine .
This and numerous other resolutions seeking redress for injustices toward Palestinians have been ignored by the US .
Thus , for 300 million Arabs and more than one billion Muslims the &quot; root cause &quot; of the Middle East conflict is not Hezbollah .
As its leader , Hassan Nasrallah aptly put it , &quot; We are just a reaction to chronic injustice . &quot;
It may well be that there is more than one root cause - every party to the conflict has a favorite one .
There is no point in belaboring whose pain is greater or whose root cause is deeper .
In fact , arguing over grievances merely drives the sides further apart .
The long overdue UN Resolution 1701 may , with its adoption , indicate that all parties are fatigued , or could no longer withstand international pressure .
This is good news for all concerned and provides an opportunity to tackle each party &apos;s &quot; root cause . &quot;
Seizing the opportunity requires that humility rather than moral supremacy prevails .
Empathy , not ethnocentrism , should be the order of the day now that the guns are falling silent and we have rediscovered the limits of military force .
But if we have learned anything at all from the tragic assassinations of the region &apos;s greatest peacemakers , Anwar Sadat and Yitzhak Rabin , it is that the guns do not remain silent for long .
During any lull , a fanatic from either side could jump to center stage and , through an act of utter madness , kick up the settling dust and dash the hopes of the many on both sides who still long for a lasting peace .
After the Millennium Development Goals
CAMBRIDGE - In 2000 , 189 countries collectively adopted the United Nations Millennium Declaration , which evolved into a set of concrete targets called the Millennium Development Goals ( MDGs ) .
These ambitious targets - ranging from halving extreme poverty and reducing maternal mortality by three @-@ quarters to achieving universal primary schooling and halting ( and beginning to reverse ) the spread of HIV / AIDS - are supposed to be met by the end of 2015 .
As the deadline approaches , development experts are debating a new question : What comes next ?
It is virtually certain that many of the MDGs will not have been met by the end of 2015 , but there have been striking successes in some areas .
For example , the goal of halving extreme poverty ( measured by the number of people living on less than $ 1.25 a day ) will likely be achieved ahead of time , largely thanks to China &apos;s phenomenal growth .
At the same time , there is little evidence to suggest that those successes were the result of the MDGs themselves .
China implemented the policies that engineered history &apos;s greatest poverty eradication program prior to , and independently from , the Millennium Declaration and the MDGs .
Clearly , however , the MDGs were a public @-@ relations triumph , which is not to belittle their contribution .
Like all worthwhile PR efforts , the MDGs served to raise awareness , galvanize attention , and mobilize action - all for a good cause .
They amplified the global conversation about development and defined its terms .
And there is evidence that they got advanced countries to pay more attention to poor nations .
Indeed , the MDGs possibly had their clearest impact on aid flows from rich to poor countries .
A study by Charles Kenny and Andy Sumner for the Center for Global Development in Washington , DC , suggests that the MDGs not only boosted aid flows , but also redirected them toward smaller , poorer countries , and toward targeted areas like education and public health .
However , aid was not directly linked to performance and results , and it is much more difficult to know whether it had the desired impact overall .
The MDGs encompass eight goals , 21 targets , and 60 indicators .
Much criticism has focused on the use of these numerical targets and indicators , which , skeptics argue , are misspecified , mismeasured , and divert attention from equally important areas .
But these complaints miss the point .
Any effort that is concrete and implementable needs to monitor the results , and setting clear numerical targets is the best way to do so .
Still , a central paradox plagues the MDGs .
The Millennium Declaration was meant to be a compact between the world &apos;s rich and poor countries .
Poor countries promised to refocus their development efforts while rich countries pledged to support them with finance , technology , and access to their markets .
But , oddly , of the eight goals , only the last one deals with &quot; global partnership , &quot; or what rich countries can and should do .
Even here , the MDGs contain no numerical target for financial aid or any other aspect of rich countries &quot; assistance , in contrast to the highly specific poverty @-@ related targets set for developing countries .
It is perhaps telling that the &quot; progress charts &quot; prepared by the United Nations Development Program , the agency charged with reporting on progress toward achieving the MDGs , track only Internet usage under that goal .
Why we need a global effort to convince developing countries to do what is good for them is not clear .
Poverty reduction and human development should be the first order of business for governments in these countries , with or without the MDGs .
It is true , of course , that these governments often pursue different goals , for political , military , and other reasons .
But it is wishful thinking to believe that they can be persuaded to act otherwise by international declarations that lack enforcement mechanisms .
If we have learned one thing in the development business , it is that real reform cannot be bought with donors &quot; money , let alone with vague promises of money .
Equally problematic , the MDGs implicitly assume that we know how to achieve development targets , and that only resources and political will are missing .
But it is doubtful that even well @-@ intentioned policymakers have a good handle on , say , how to raise secondary @-@ school completion rates sustainably or reduce maternal mortality .
Many development economists would argue that significant improvements in governance and political institutions are required before such goals can be achieved .
The most that rich countries can do is to provide an enabling environment for the benefit of developing countries that are willing and able to take advantage of it .
These considerations suggest an obvious direction for the next iteration of the MDGs .
First , a new global compact should focus more directly on rich countries &quot; responsibilities .
Second , it should emphasize policies beyond aid and trade that have an equal , if not greater , impact on poor countries &quot; development prospects .
A short list of such policies would include : carbon taxes and other measures to ameliorate climate change ; more work visas to allow larger temporary migration flows from poor countries ; strict controls on arms sales to developing nations ; reduced support for repressive regimes ; and improved sharing of financial information to reduce money laundering and tax avoidance .
Notice that most of these measures are actually aimed at reducing damage - for example , climate change , military conflict , and financial crime - that otherwise results from rich countries &quot; conduct .
&quot; Do no harm &quot; is as good a principle here as it is in medicine .
This kind of reorientation will not be easy .
Advanced countries are certain to resist any new commitments .
But most of these measures do not cost money , and , as the MDGs have shown , setting targets can be used to mobilize action from rich @-@ country governments .
If the international community is going to invest in a bold new public @-@ relations initiative , it might as well focus on areas where the potential payoffs are the greatest .
After the Promised Land
LONDON - At the height of the Arab uprisings last spring , many Europeans were gripped by nightmare visions of a tsunami of migrants crashing against the continent &apos;s shores .
The wave never hit , but its specter fed a tenacious anti @-@ immigrant populism that has concealed an important new trend : migration to Europe - and to the United States - has largely stalled .
In many countries , more immigrants are leaving than are arriving , owing mainly to the economic crisis that has drained jobs in the West .
That reversal is one of the great under @-@ reported stories of 2011 ( and of the preceding two years ) , and the numbers are startling . Consider Spain , which is on track to lose more than a half @-@ million residents by 2020 .
By contrast , between 2002 and 2008 , Spain &apos;s population grew by 700,000 a year , driven largely by immigration .
The trends are similar elsewhere in Europe .
While this fact alone will not quiet opponents of immigration , it does give countries more breathing room to repair and strengthen badly broken systems for receiving and integrating newcomers .
Although rapidly aging Western countries are unable to attract the immigrants they need , they allow millions who are already there to suffer discrimination and abuse .
Detentions and deportations take place under sometimes terrible conditions .
Meanwhile , the international community collectively fails to protect vast populations of vulnerable migrants , such as the millions stranded by the recent conflicts in North Africa .
Undoubtedly , rising anti @-@ immigrant populism must be confronted .
While polling suggests that attitudes are influenced more by ethnicity than religion , both help to define identities and mindsets .
Political parties in France , Switzerland , and the Netherlands ( to name a few ) have run successful campaigns that scapegoat immigrants .
Moreover , governments from Alabama to Hungary are passing laws that undermine what should be migrants &quot; rights .
Italy recently adopted harsh &quot; emergency &quot; decrees that target migrants by making undocumented entry and residence a criminal offense .
Anti @-@ immigrant rhetoric from the political extremes has fed into mainstream political discourse .
European leaders trip over themselves to declare , one more forcefully than the next , that multiculturalism is dead .
Dutch politician Geert Wilders , whose Freedom Party is informally part of the governing coalition , did them one better by being charged with incitement to anti @-@ Muslim hatred .
In the US , alligator @-@ filled moats and electrified border fences have featured in the current presidential campaign .
Such attacks on immigration might offer some instant political gratification , but their net result is to cleave societies whose cohesion is already seriously challenged by the economic crisis .
Growing discrimination in employment , housing , and education affects not just immigrants and their children ; it harms our societies as a whole .
With the lull in net immigration , we now have a window of opportunity to address these shortcomings .
Debunking the myths about migration - that most immigrants enter unlawfully , for example , or that immigration displaces existing workers - would be a good place to start .
It would also be useful to explain that immigration is necessary for prosperity and growth in almost all OECD countries .
If aging societies in the West and elsewhere ( like Japan ) fail to get immigration right , they will be woefully unprepared when they confront the real tidal wave : the retirement of baby boomers in the coming two decades .
The gaps in these countries &quot; labor markets - from software specialists to physicians to home health aides - will be immense .
The European Union &apos;s labor force will decline by almost 70 million workers in the next 40 years ; in the absence of significant net immigration ( combined with a much higher retirement age ) , European economies and social safety nets will shrivel .
The priorities are clear .
We need to understand better how our economies will evolve in the coming decades , and to redesign our educational systems to produce workers with usable skills .
And , where it is clear that immigrants will be needed , we must be able to identify , welcome , integrate , and protect them .
Meanwhile , our most fundamental institutions - schools , police , and the courts - must be re @-@ engineered to reflect and respond to the diversity of our communities , which is now a fact of life .
Countries must learn to work together to achieve these goals , few of which can be reached by going it alone .
If our toolbox were empty , our inaction might be understandable .
But examples of smart migration practices abound .
Canada and the Philippines , for instance , have a well @-@ functioning accord that protects the rights of temporary workers .
Sweden has developed legislation that minimizes bureaucracy for companies that need foreign workers .
And important advances have been made in ensuring that immigrant children receive the education that they need to become full members of society .
Progress is being made on the global level as well , despite the economic crisis and populist headwinds .
In June , the International Labor Organization &apos;s member states overwhelmingly approved the Domestic Workers Convention , which will significantly increase protections for a vulnerable group of workers - &amp; nbsp ; the majority of whom are migrants .
Meanwhile , the Global Forum on Migration and Development , established in 2007 , has quickly become an important means of fostering knowledge and partnerships .
The reason for growing international cooperation is simple : countries everywhere are affected by migration , and , increasingly , they are experiencing immigration and emigration simultaneously .
Indeed , roughly one @-@ third of migrants nowadays move between developed countries ; one @-@ third move between developing countries ; and only one @-@ third move from the developing to the developed world .
Highly skilled workers , such as bankers and engineers , are flocking to China .
Mexico , known primarily as a country of emigration , is home to millions of migrants from Central America .
Millions of people in Southeast Asia venture to the Middle East to work , but millions more cross borders within the region .
The list goes on .
When it comes to migration , we are all in the same boat - and that boat is leaking .
Starting in 2012 , countries should redouble their efforts to fix it .
After the Taliban
&quot; Failed state &quot; is a term applied frequently to Afghanistan and is often deemed the cause for why terrorists gained such influence there .
But a country does not fail of its own volition , nor is it weakened by unknown causes .
A country fails , when it fails , for definite , identifiable reasons .
These must be addressed if Afghanistan is to be revived .
Twenty years of invasion , civil war , and drought have left Afghanistan &apos;s institutions in ruin .
Millions of Afghans huddle in refugee camps or are displaced from their homes .
Land @-@ mines defile the countryside .
Millions are sick and poor ; many live at starvation levels .
For these and many other reasons , rebuilding Afghanistan &apos;s economy will require not only economic reconstruction but an effort to reinvent the country &apos;s political and cultural institutions .
Such a massive effort will be doomed to failure , however , if Afghanistan &apos;s neighbors intervene in ways that promote economic upheaval all over again .
Afghanistan is no place for quick fixes .
Rebuilding the country cannot be done cheaply .
Any thought that the anti @-@ terror coalition will be able to bail out fast ( as the West did when it abandoned Afghanistan to its fate after the Soviet withdrawal ten years ago ) should be forgotten .
The West must stick with Afghanistan until its reconstruction is established .
Otherwise , it runs the risk of renewed chaos and violence , but this time in a more destabilized region , as Pakistan &apos;s current problems demonstrate .
Three problems are of immediate concern , the most important being feeding the Afghan people - both within the country and in refugee camps outside Afghanistan .
Humanitarian aid is being delivered , but a distribution system safe from the predations of Afghanistan &apos;s warlords needs to be built .
Indeed , the warlords have been given too big a say in distributing aid already , and it may be hard to strip them of this power .
But stripped they must be .
The second problem involves relocating Afghan refugees now living in Pakistan and Iran , as well as those displaced within Afghanistan .
To achieve this goal , the agricultural economy must be revived in order to revive this industry , providing jobs and food for people .
A massive impediment here is the millions of mines left over from the Soviet invasion that must be removed .
The West has a big incentive to be generous to Afghanistan &apos;s rural poor .
Starving farmers , if unassisted , may return to cultivating a very reliable cash crop : the opium poppy , long a staple of the warlord economy .
Eliminating it will not only help farmers and the West as it tries to curtail heroin use , but also Afghanistan &apos;s infant government as it struggles to assert its national authority against the warlords .
A bankrupt warlord , after all , cannot buy weapons or bribe people to maintain their loyalty .
Major infrastructure investments will also be needed if the economy is to be revived .
Housing , particularly for returning refugees , will need to be constructed fast .
Cities such as Kabul , Mazar , Herat and others will need to be rebuilt as centers of economic and cultural life .
Village housing must be provided at a massive level .
Roads , airports and communications systems must also be revitalized if trade is to be restored .
The educational system needs to be rebuilt almost from scratch , and with so many women anxious to return to teaching , a revived educational system will also help Afghanistan &apos;s democratic politicians gain a powerful lobby of workers .
Particular attention should be given to elementary schools and libraries outside of cities .
Afghanistan poses particular difficulties in reconstruction , as it is not a society with a strong political center .
Planners should take advantage of the country &apos;s decentralized nature and emphasize private sector participation in reconstruction .
A decentralized system will respond better to local needs and avoid an over @-@ bureaucratic public sector .
But autonomous economic regions should be avoided as a threat to Afghan national unity because they would play into the hands of the warlords .
Moreover , poorer regions would do badly in such a system .
In the long run , Afghanistan has resources that can be exploited .
There is the potential for oil and gas exploration , and of mining iron ore and precious metals .
These activities should be explored in a framework of economic development across Central Asia .
Afghanistan , indeed , must be integrated into the regional pipeline and other development schemes .
Afghans can contribute in a tangible way here by reopening the North @-@ South route connecting the resource rich economies of Central Asia to densely populated India and Pakistan .
None of this will be possible unless Afghanistan &apos;s young males are disarmed and given productive work .
Essential here , is to attract expatriate Afghans with skills and professional achievements to help in rebuilding the country by establishing small firms that will suck up the unemployed .
Expatriate involvement will also likely support the rights of women to participate fully and legally in economic and political life , as was the case before 1978 .
Finally , donor countries must apply the lessons learned in restoring the war @-@ ravaged states of the former Yugoslavia .
Grants and planning must be coordinated , and the consent of Afghanistan &apos;s neighboring countries assured .
If the latter are ignored , regional interests can incite chaos once again .
An international conference on Afghanistan should be called by the US and held under UN auspices .
It must affirm not only Afghanistan &apos;s territorial integrity , but insure that donor commitments meet the scale of the job and that these promises are kept .
A decade ago , the West turned its back on Afghanistan and chaos ensued .
To abandon the country again would be criminal folly .
After the War on Terror
NEW YORK - The basic outlines of Barack Obama &apos;s approach to foreign policy became clear in 2009 .
His administration believes that the United States should talk with other governments even if it disagrees profoundly with their character .
He prefers acting with other countries to going it alone .
And he has shifted the focus of US foreign policy from what countries do within their borders to how they act beyond them .
All of this differentiates Obama from his immediate predecessor , George W. Bush , whose administration branded selected countries as evil and mostly refused to deal with them ; often rejected cooperation with other governments , lest the US find itself constrained ; and sought to transform other countries , rather than to influence their actions .
Any parallels between Obama &apos;s foreign policy and that of Bush are more with the father , America &apos;s 41st president , George H.W. Bush .
Diplomacy , of course , should not be viewed as a favor or concession that signals &quot; softness . &quot;
Obama rightly recognizes that it is an important tool of foreign policy , to be employed when it promises results that are more favorable than the alternatives .
Obama is also correct that acting in concert with others is almost always desirable .
The challenges that most define this era - nuclear proliferation , terrorism , global climate change , and pandemic disease - can be managed only collectively .
Moreover , the reality is that the US is now too stretched economically and militarily to succeed by relying solely on its own resources .
Finally , Obama is right to focus more on the behavior of countries than on their nature .
It is not just that the assistance of odious governments is sometimes essential ; it is also that there is nothing more difficult than remaking the internal workings of other societies .
Yet , even with these adjustments , and despite Obama &apos;s communication skills and his personal popularity ( reflected in his Nobel Peace Prize and in declining anti @-@ Americanism around the world ) , 2009 was a difficult first year for his administration &apos;s foreign policy .
To begin with , a willingness to talk to governments does not always translate into an ability to work with them .
The US has shown new flexibility with Iran and North Korea , but neither has reciprocated so far .
Reasonableness does not always yield results .
Similarly , countries often choose not to cooperate .
China , for example , resists using its influence with North Korea , fearing that instability on the Korean peninsula could lead to large refugee flows into China or a united Korea allied with the US .
China prefers an imperfect status quo to such alternatives .
For its part , Russia appears reluctant to pressure Iran to reining in its nuclear ambitions .
Obama has worked hard to improve US @-@ Russian ties : bilateral arms control is again a priority , and the president agreed to alter plans for anti @-@ missile deployments in Poland and the Czech Republic .
But Russian leaders resist tough sanctions on Iran , lest they jeopardize financial dealings there and lead to increased Iranian support for Muslim minorities inside Russia .
As a result , it will be difficult in 2010 and beyond to develop an effective package of sanctions and incentives that enjoys broad international backing .
Similarly , when it came to negotiating a new pact to mitigate global climate change , diplomatic efforts had to contend with international discord in 2009 , forcing leaders to postpone their efforts yet again .
With developing countries fearing the impact of binding limits on carbon emissions on their economic growth , and with insufficient support in the US Congress , a global treaty appears unlikely in 2010 as well .
In the Middle East , despite Obama &apos;s vow to re @-@ start the Israeli @-@ Palestinian peace process , progress remained stymied by differences over the scope and content of an agreement and how to bring it about .
The lack of forward movement stems not just from disagreement over goals , but also from the inability of a divided Palestinian leadership to compromise .
Weak protagonists make poor participants in peace negotiations .
Moreover , other countries &quot; domestic politics do matter for what Obama can accomplish .
Afghanistan &apos;s often corrupt and incompetent government undermines counter @-@ insurgency efforts there .
Pakistan &apos;s government does not share the same threat assessments or priorities as its American benefactor .
No amount of increased American military effort is likely to offset the resulting lack of progress in weakening extremists in both countries .
Domestic politics in the US is also getting in the way of Obama &apos;s foreign @-@ policy goals .
The absence of consensus on climate change , or resistance in Congress to new trade agreements , weakens the president &apos;s hand .
And America &apos;s unwillingness to take meaningful steps to reduce its ballooning fiscal deficit further undermines the effectiveness of its foreign policy .
Finally , some of what the Obama administration chose to do ( singling out Israeli settlements , for example ) and how it did it ( Guantánamo comes to mind ) made tough situations tougher .
But the larger truth is that the world has become a more difficult place to manage , much less to lead .
The post @-@ Cold War era of US unipolarity has ended , owing to America &apos;s economic mismanagement , the war in Iraq , the continuing rise of other countries , and globalization .
There are bright spots , of course .
America &apos;s relations with other major powers - China , India , Japan , Russia , Europe , and Brazil - are at least as cooperative as they are competitive ; conflict between such major powers , the dominant characteristic of the international order in the twentieth century , is unlikely .
It is also possible that some of today &apos;s most closed countries , including Iran , North Korea , Burma , Cuba , and Venezuela , will become more open and less threatening with time .
On balance , though , early evidence suggests that this will not be an era of smooth multilateralism or American leadership .
Something more complicated , and unwieldy , appears increasingly likely .
Barack Obama &apos;s next three years in office ( or seven , if he is re @-@ elected in 2012 ) will likely be characterized as much by frustration as by accomplishment .
Aftershocks from Japan
NEW HAVEN - The devastation - both human and physical - from the earthquake and tsunami in Japan is unfathomable .
It is impossible at this point to gauge the full extent of the damage with any degree of precision .
But we can nonetheless begin to assess its potential spillover effects on the rest of Asia and other major economies around the world .
The narrow view of the catastrophe &apos;s economic impact is that Japan doesn &apos;t really matter anymore .
After all , more than 20 years of unusually sluggish trend growth in Japanese output has sharply reduced its incremental impact on the broader global economy .
The disaster may produce some disproportionate supply @-@ chain effects in autos and information @-@ technology product lines such as flash drives , but any such disruptions would tend to be transitory .
On the surface , the world &apos;s two largest economies have little to fear .
Japan accounts for only 5 % of America &apos;s exports and 8 % of China &apos;s .
Under the worst @-@ case outcome of a complete disruption to the Japanese economy , the direct repercussions on the United States and Chinese economies would be small - shaving no more than a few tenths of a percentage point off their annual growth rates .
Within the so @-@ called G @-@ 10 developed economies , Australia has the largest direct exposure to Japan - the destination of about 19 % of its total exports .
The eurozone is at the opposite end of the spectrum , with Japan accounting for less than 2 % of its exports .
Among emerging @-@ markets , the Philippines and Indonesia are the most exposed to Japan , which absorbs about 16 % of their total exports .
South Korea , the third @-@ largest economy in East Asia , is at the other end of the scale , relying on Japanese demand for only about 6 % of its exports .
But the narrow view misses the most critical consideration : this &quot; Japan shock &quot; has not occurred at a time of great economic strength .
That is true not only of Japan itself , where two lost decades have left a once @-@ vigorous economy on a less @-@ than @-@ 1 % growth trajectory since the early 1990 &quot; s .
But it is also true of the broader global economy , which was only just beginning to recover from the worst financial crisis and recession since the 1930 &quot; s .
Moreover , the Japan shock is not the only negative factor at work today .
The impacts of sharply rising oil prices and ongoing sovereign debt problems in Europe are also very worrisome .
While each of these shocks may not qualify as the proverbial tipping point , the combination and the context are disconcerting , to say the least .
Context is vital .
Notwithstanding the euphoric resurgence of global equity markets over the past two years , the world economy remains fragile .
What markets seem to have forgotten is that post @-@ bubble , post @-@ financial @-@ crisis recoveries tend to be anemic .
Economies grow at something much closer to their stall speeds , thus lacking the cyclical &quot; escape velocity &quot; required for a self @-@ sustaining recovery .
As a result , post @-@ crisis economies are far more vulnerable to shocks and prone to relapses than might otherwise be the case .
Alas , there is an added complication that makes today &apos;s shocks all the more vexing : governments and central banks have exhausted the traditional ammunition upon which they have long relied during times of economic duress .
That is true of both monetary and fiscal policy - the two mainstays of modern countercyclical stabilization .
Policy interest rates are close to zero in the major economies in the developed world , and outsize budget deficits are the norm .
As a result , unconventional - and untested - policies , such as so @-@ called &quot; quantitative easing , &quot; have become the rage among central bankers .
All along , such unconventional policies were viewed as a temporary fix .
The hope was that policy settings soon would return to pre @-@ crisis norms .
But , with one shock following another , the &quot; exit strategy &quot; keeps being deferred .
Just as it is next to impossible to take a critically ill patient off life @-@ support treatment , it is equally difficult to wean post @-@ bubble economies from their now steady dose of liquidity injections and deficit spending .
In an era of extraordinarily high unemployment , political pressures only compound the problem .
This raises perhaps the most troublesome concern of all : with a post @-@ crisis world getting hit by one shock after another , and with central banks having no latitude to cut interest rates , it is not hard to envision a scenario of open @-@ ended monetary expansion that ends in tears .
The dreaded inflationary endgame suddenly looms as a very real possibility .
None of this detracts from the resilience factor .
Yes , Japan will rebuild , which will undoubtedly spur some type of recovery in its disaster @-@ battered economy .
That happened in the aftermath of the Hanshin ( Kobe ) earthquake in 1995 , and it will happen this time as well .
But , just as the post @-@ Kobe rebuilding did little to end the first of Japan &apos;s lost decades , a similar outcome can be expected this time .
The upside of rebuilding - beyond the urgent restoration of normal life for thousands of people - is only a temporary palliative for an impaired economy .
That &apos;s only one of the lessons that Japan offers the rest of us .
The Japanese economy has , in fact , been on the leading edge of many of the more serious problems that have afflicted the global economy in recent years .
From asset bubbles and a dysfunctional financial system to currency suppression and monetary @-@ policy blunders , Japan has been in many respects the laboratory of our future .
Unfortunately , the world has failed to learn the lessons of Japan .
And now it risks missing another important clue .
The significance of the earthquake and tsunami of 2011 is not the relatively low magnitude of Japan &apos;s direct impact on the broader global economy .
The more meaningful message is how these shocks box the rest of us into an even tighter corner .
Against Simplification
NEW YORK - It is said that Americans have a genius for simplification .
Gradually , however , the quest for it has become a global trend , one that continues to conquer new territories , just as blue jeans once did .
The speed of our daily life is visibly increased - and not for the better - by this unstoppable evolution .
The tyranny of pragmatism seems to mark all of the complex dilemmas of our time .
Too many valid choices are ignored or skirted through the routine of short @-@ cuts .
Nowhere is this trend more damaging than in today &apos;s mercantile approach to art .
Even the much @-@ praised notion of competition seems fake and cynically manipulated by the &quot; corporate &quot; mentality that now pervades the world of culture - by the financial pre @-@ selection that determines what publishers , producers , and other impresarios will support .
Just imagine what might have happened with the works of , say , Proust , Kafka , Musil , Faulkner , or Borges had they been subjected to mass @-@ market competition like shoes or cosmetics .
Culture is a necessary pause from the daily rat race , from our chaotic and often vulgar political surroundings , and it is a chance to recover our spiritual energy .
Great books , music , and paintings are not only an extraordinary school of beauty , truth , and good , but also a way of discovering our own beauty , truth , and good - the potential for change , of bettering ourselves and even some of our interlocutors .
If this respite and refuge is gradually narrowed and invaded by the same kind of &quot; products &quot; as those that dominate the mass market , we are condemned to be perpetual captives of the same stunted universe of &quot; practicalities , &quot; the ordinary agglomeration of clichés packaged in advertisements .
I was thinking again about these old and seemingly unsolvable questions during my re @-@ reading of a quite challenging novel by a close friend and a great writer , not very present in the vivid landscape of American letters of today .
The theme , style , and echo of his work says a lot , I think , about our simplified world .
The novel is Blinding , by Claudio Magris .
Hailed in Europe as one of the great novels of the twentieth century , Blinding arrived in America only after a great delay , and never received the attention that it deserved .
Unfortunately , that is no surprise .
The number of literary translations done nowadays in the United States is , according to a United Nations report , equal to that of Greece , a country one @-@ tenth the size .
Imported books are thought to be too &quot; complicated , &quot; which is another way of saying that literature should deal with simple issues in a simple way , obeying the rules of the mass market , with its tricks of packaging , accessibility , advertisement , and comfort .
At the core of Magris &quot; book is the destiny of a group of Italian communists who travel to Yugoslavia after the Second World War to contribute to the construction of a socialist society , only to be caught in the conflict between Stalin and Tito .
They are imprisoned for their Stalinist allegiance ; when they are finally allowed to return to Italy , their old comrades refuse to accept them .
The book &apos;s plot spans two centuries of revolution .
Then , suddenly ,
&quot; the party vanished , overnight , as if all of a sudden a giant sponge had drained the entire sea , Adriatic and Austral , leaving litter and clots of mud , and all the boats stranded .
How can you go home again if the sea has been sucked down a vast drain that opened up beneath it , emptying it who knows where , into a void ?
The earth is arid and dead , but there won &apos;t be another one , nor another heaven . &quot;
The solitude of the individual facing his faith alone , without collective illusions , and forced to do something with himself in the arid , noisy world tells us something important about the exiled world of modernity and its complex and contradictory problems .
Magris &apos;s novel is not only an important literary achievement ; it also has a deep connection to the dangers that we face now , particularly the wave of fanaticism , from Mumbai to Oslo , in the name of a holy war against the &quot; other . &quot;
Are all the extremists searching for a new coherence , for a lost illusion of togetherness and a new hope of resurrection ?
Can we ever forget September 11 , 2001 , the start of a bloody century in which the mystical force of hatred and destruction has recovered its strength ?
Are Osama Bin Laden &apos;s minions , the bloody Hamas @-@ Hezbollah battalions , or troubled loners like Timothy McVeigh , Theodore Kaczynski , and now Norway &apos;s Anders Behring Breivik , the &quot; heroes &quot; of our contemporary nightmare ?
Is this the &quot; rebel &quot; response to an overly globalized , incoherent , and ultimately disturbing reality ?
If so , their barbarism demands scrutiny - in relation to both historical precedent and to our modernity - rather than merely being labeled &quot; monstrous &quot; ( though it certainly is that ) .
The new religious militants , fighting in the name of their particular and peculiar God , seem as fanaticized as the Fascists , Nazis , and Communists of earlier decades .
Magris &apos;s main character is a rebel in more than one embodiment : as Salvatore Cipico , one of the inmates in the communist concentration camp in Yugoslavia ; as Jurgen Jurgensen , ephemeral king of Iceland and a convict forced to build his own jail ; and as Jason , the mythic adventurer searching for the volatile truth .
A multilayered and complex chronicle of the devastating tragedies of the twentieth century , Blinding is an insistent , informed , and irreplaceable incursion into the moving landscape of the human soul , its wounds and voids , its vitality and versatility , its deep distortions and its unpredictable dynamics .
It is a fascinating story about the conflict between ideals and reality , or Utopia and humanness ; about being faithful to a cause and betraying it ; and about sacrifice and solidarity .
It is also a rich and original literary achievement that challenges today &apos;s consumerist ethic .
By renouncing simplicity , it also repudiates today &apos;s prevailing confusion of information with literature , of facts with creativity , and best @-@ selling products with true works of art .
Ethics and Agriculture
MELBOURNE - Should rich countries - or investors based there - be buying agricultural land in developing countries ?
That question is raised in Transnational Land Deals for Agriculture in the Global South , a report issued last year by the Land Matrix Partnership , a consortium of European research institutes and nongovernmental organizations .
The report shows that since 2000 , investors or state bodies in rich or emerging countries have bought more than 83 million hectares ( more than 200 million acres ) of agricultural land in poorer developing countries .
This amounts to 1.7 % of the world &apos;s agricultural land .
Most of these purchases have been made in Africa , with two @-@ thirds taking place in countries where hunger is widespread and institutions for establishing formal land ownership are often weak .
The purchases in Africa alone amount to an area of agricultural land the size of Kenya .
It has been claimed that foreign investors are purchasing land that has been left idle ; thus , by bringing it into production , the purchases are increasing the availability of food overall .
But the Land Matrix Partnership report found that this is not the case : roughly 45 % of the purchases involved existing croplands , and almost a third of the purchased land was forested , indicating that its development may pose risks for biodiversity .
The investments are both private and public ( for example , by state @-@ owned entities ) and come from three different groups of countries : emerging economies like China , India , Brazil , South Africa , Malaysia , and South Korea ; oil @-@ rich Gulf states ; and wealthy developed economies like the United States and several European countries .
On average , per capita income in the countries that are the source of these investments is four times higher than in the target countries .
Most of the investments are aimed at producing food or other crops for export from the countries in which the land is acquired , for the obvious reason that richer countries can pay more for the output .
More than 40 % of such projects aim to export food to the source country - suggesting that food security is a major reason for buying the land .
Oxfam International calls some of these deals &quot; land grabs . &quot;
Its own report , Our Land , Our Lives , indicates that , since 2008 , communities affected by World Bank projects have brought 21 formal complaints alleging violations of their land rights .
Oxfam , drawing attention to large @-@ scale land acquisitions that have entailed direct rights violations , has called on the Bank to freeze investments in land purchases until it can set standards ensuring that local communities are informed of them in advance , with the option of refusing them .
Oxfam also wants the Bank to ensure that these land deals do not undermine either local or national food security .
In response , the World Bank agreed that there are instances of abuse in land acquisition , particularly in developing countries in which governance is weak , and said that it supported more transparent and inclusive participation .
At the same time , it pointed to the need to increase food production to feed the extra two billion people expected to be alive in 2050 , and suggested that more investment in agriculture in developing countries is required to improve productivity .
The Bank rejected the idea of a moratorium on its own work with investors in agriculture , arguing that this would target precisely those who are most likely to do the right thing .
One may ask whether transparency and the requirement that local landholders consent to a sale is enough to protect people living in poverty .
Supporters of free markets will argue that if local landowners wish to sell their land , that is their choice to make . &amp; # 160 ;
But , given the pressures of poverty and the lure of cash , what does it take for people to be able to make a genuinely free and informed choice about selling something as significant as a right to land ?
After all , we do not allow poor people to sell their kidneys to the highest bidder .
Of course , hardline supporters of free markets will say that we should .
But , at the very least , it needs to be explained why people should be prohibited from selling kidneys , but not from selling the land that grows their food .
Most people can live without one kidney .
No one can live without food .
Why does the purchase of body parts give rise to international condemnation , while the purchase of agricultural land does not - even when it involves evicting local landholders and producing food for export to rich countries instead of for local consumption ?
The World Bank may indeed be more concerned about local landholders &quot; rights than other foreign investors are .
If so , the 21 complaints made against Bank projects are most likely the visible tip of a vast iceberg of violations of land rights by foreign investors in agricultural projects in developing countries - with the others remaining invisible because victims have no access to any complaint procedure .
One such case belatedly came to the attention of the United Nations Human Rights Committee .
In November , the Committee concluded that Germany had failed to police the Neumann Kaffee Gruppe regarding its complicity in the forced eviction of several villages in Uganda to make way for a large coffee plantation .
But the evictions took place in 2001 , and the villagers are still living in extreme poverty .
They found no remedy , in either Uganda or Germany , for the violation of rights that , according to the Committee , they possess under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights , to which Germany is a signatory .
Are we to believe that landholders fare better with Chinese or Saudi investors ?
Aid Works
NEW YORK - The critics of foreign aid are wrong .
A growing flood of data shows that death rates in many poor countries are falling sharply , and that aid @-@ supported programs for health @-@ care delivery have played a key role .
Aid works ; it saves lives .
One of the newest studies , by Gabriel Demombynes and Sofia Trommlerova , shows that Kenya &apos;s infant mortality ( deaths under the age of one year ) has plummeted in recent years , and attributes a significant part of the gain to the massive uptake of anti @-@ malaria bed nets .
These findings are consistent with an important study of malaria death rates by Chris Murray and others , which similarly found a significant and rapid decline in malaria @-@ caused deaths after 2004 in sub @-@ Saharan Africa resulting from aid @-@ supported malaria @-@ control measures .
Let &apos;s turn back the clock a dozen years .
In 2000 , Africa was struggling with three major epidemics .
AIDS was killing more than two million people each year , and spreading rapidly .
Malaria was surging , owing to the parasite &apos;s growing resistance to the standard medicine at the time .
Tuberculosis was also soaring , partly as a result of the AIDS epidemic and partly because of the emergence of drug @-@ resistant TB .
In addition , hundreds of thousands of women were dying in childbirth each year , because they had no access to safe deliveries in a clinic or hospital , or to emergency help when needed .
These interconnected crises prompted action .
The United Nations &quot; member states adopted the Millennium Development Goals in September 2000 .
Three of the eight MDGs - reductions in children &apos;s deaths , maternal deaths , and epidemic diseases - focus directly on health .
Likewise , the World Health Organization issued a major call to scale up development assistance for health .
And African leaders , led by Nigeria &apos;s president at the time , Olusegun Obasanjo , took on the challenge of battling the continent &apos;s epidemics .
Nigeria hosted two landmark summits , on malaria in 2000 and on AIDS in 2001 , which were a crucial spur to action .
At the second of these summits , then @-@ UN Secretary @-@ General Kofi Annan called for the creation of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS , TB , and Malaria .
The Global Fund began operations in 2002 , financing prevention , treatment , and care programs for the three diseases .
High @-@ income countries also finally agreed to reduce the debt owed by heavily indebted poor countries , allowing them to spend more on health care and less on crippling payments to creditors .
The United States also took action , adopting two major programs , one to fight AIDS and the other to fight malaria .
In 2005 , the UN Millennium Project recommended specific ways to scale up primary health care in the poorest countries , with the high @-@ income countries helping to cover the costs that the poorest could not pay by themselves .
The UN General Assembly backed many of the project &apos;s recommendations , which were then implemented in numerous low @-@ income countries .
Donor aid did start to rise sharply as a result of all of these efforts .
In 1995 , total aid for health care was around $ 7.9 billion .
This inadequate level then crept up slowly , to $ 10.5 billion by 2000 .
By 2005 , however , annual aid for health had jumped another $ 5.9 billion , and by 2010 , the total had grown by another $ 10.5 billion , to reach $ 26.9 billion for the year .
The expanded funding allowed major campaigns against AIDS , TB , and malaria ; a major scaling up of safe childbirth ; and increased vaccine coverage , including the near @-@ eradication of polio .
Many innovative public @-@ health techniques were developed and adopted .
With one billion people living in high @-@ income countries , total aid in 2010 amounted to around $ 27 per person in the donor countries - a modest sum for them , but a life @-@ saving one for the world &apos;s poorest people .
The public @-@ health successes can now be seen on many fronts .
Around 12 million children under five years old died in 1990 .
By 2010 , this number had declined to around 7.6 million - still far too high , but definitely an historic improvement .
Malaria deaths in children in Africa were cut from a peak of around one million in 2004 to around 700,000 by 2010 , and , worldwide , deaths of pregnant women declined by almost half between 1990 and 2010 , from an estimated 543,000 to 287,000 .
Another $ 10 @-@ 15 billion in annual aid ( that is , roughly $ 10 @-@ 15 more per person in the high @-@ income world ) , bringing total aid to around $ 40 billion per year , would enable still greater progress to be made in the coming years .
The MDGs for health could be achieved even in many of the world &apos;s poorest countries .
Unfortunately , at every step during the past decade - and still today - a chorus of aid skeptics has argued against the needed help .
They have repeatedly claimed that aid does not work ; that the funds will simply be wasted ; that anti @-@ malaria bed nets cannot be given to the poor , since the poor won &apos;t use them ; that the poor will not take anti @-@ AIDS medicines properly ; and so on and so forth .
Their attacks have been relentless ( I &apos;ve faced my share ) .
The opponents of aid are not merely wrong .
Their vocal antagonism still threatens the funding that is needed to get the job done , to cut child and maternal deaths by enough to meet the MDGs by 2015 in the poorest countries , and to continue after that to ensure that all people everywhere finally have access to basic health services .
A decade of significant progress in health outcomes has proved the skeptics wrong .
Aid for health care works - and works magnificently - to save and improve lives .
Let us continue to support these life @-@ saving programs , which uphold the dignity and well @-@ being of all people on the planet .
Airpocalypse di Eropa
SINGAPURA - Para pembuat kebijakan di Eropa memang senang menceramahi negara lain tentang polusi udara .
Negara @-@ negara di Asia , khususnya Tiongkok , menjadi target favorit penerima kritik mereka .
Bahkan rasa @-@ rasanya konferensi berskala besar apapun yang membahas tentang lingkungan hidup belum lengkap jika tidak disertai presentasi oleh pembuat kebijakan dari Eropa tentang &quot; praktik @-@ praktik terbaik &quot; di Eropa yang harus ditiru negara @-@ negara lain .
Akan tetapi , bicara mengenai polusi udara , mungkin ada baiknya negara @-@ negara Eropa lebih sedikit bicara dan lebih banyak mendengar .
Polusi udara menjadi semakin parah di kawasan Eropa .
Organisasi Kesehatan Dunia ( WHO ) menyebutnya &quot; satu @-@ satunya risiko kesehatan lingkungan hidup yang terbesar &quot; dan memperkirakan 90 % penduduk Eropa terpapar dengan polusi outdoor yang melebihi batas kualitas utama berdasarkan pedoman WHO .
Pada tahun 2010 , sekitar 600.000 penduduk Eropa meninggal di usia muda karena polusi dalam ruangan ( indoor ) dan di luar ruangan ( outdoor ) dan kerugian ekonomi ditaksir mencapai $ 1.6 triliun , yakni sekitar 9 % PDB Uni Eropa .
London dan Paris mengalami masalah kualitas udara buruk .
Tingkat nitrogen dioksida di sejumlah wilayah di London seringkali mencapai 2 @-@ 3 kali di atas batas wajar yang disarankan .
Di UK saja , polusi udara membunuh sekitar 29,000 orang dalam setahun dan menempati peringkat kedua penyebab kematian di usia muda .
Paris bahkan mungkin lebih menderita ; pada bulan Maret , setelah tingkat polusi udaranya melebihi Shanghai , pemerintah setempat lalu menetapkan larangan mengemudi secara parsial dan menggratiskan layanan transportasi publik .
Sayangnya , pembuat kebijakan di Eropa tidak terdorong untuk melakukan gerakan yang sama .
George Osborne , selaku Chancellor of the Exchequer pemerintah UK , menolak kepemimpinan Inggris dalam perjuangan melawan perubahan iklim . &quot; Kita tidak akan menyelamatkan bumi dengan menutup pabrik baja , fasilitas smelter aluminium , atau pabrik kertas , &quot; jelasnya dalam pernyataan yang dibuat di tahun 2011 .
George Osborne tidak sendirian .
Di saat para politisi Eropa berpendapat perlindungan lingkungan hidup akan melemahkan perekonomian Eropa yang sudah memburuk , tentu tidak mengejutkan bila upaya mengurangi polusi udara tidak berhasil .
Standar @-@ standar yang mengatur emisi beracun dari pabrik batubara yang diperkenalkan Uni Eropa bahkan kalah ketat bila dibandingkan Tiongkok , menurut laporan Greenpeace .
Namun sejumlah politisi Eropa menyerukan kebijakan yang lebih longgar , sementara Hongaria menyarankan agar standar tersebut dihapuskan seluruhnya .
Memang benar bahwa tingkat polusi udara di Asia sangat mengkhawatirkan .
Di Benua Asia terdapat sembilan dari sepuluh negara dengan polusi terburuk , berdasarkan Peringkat Kualitas Udara yang diterbitkan Yale University pada tahun 2014 lalu .
New Delhi menempati posisi pertama kota dengan tingkat polusi tertinggi di dunia , dimana polusi udara mencapai 60 kali di atas batas aman .
Berkat udara yang tidak sehat di Beijing , perusahaan @-@ perusahaan asing membayarkan &quot; hardship bonus &quot; kepada 30 % karyawan yang bekerja di kota tersebut .
Namun setidaknya pembuat kebijakan di Asia sudah mengakuinya sebagai masalah dan mengambil tindakan untuk mengatasinya .
Tiongkok , misalnya menyerukan &quot; perang melawan polusi . &quot;
Hingga tahun 2017 , Beijing - pernah disebut &quot; Greyjing &quot; oleh media internasional - akan mengeluarkan sekitar CN ¥ 760 miliar ( $ 121 miliar ) guna melawan polusi udara .
Inti dari upaya Tiongkok adalah meningkatnya penggunaan transportasi publik , perdagangan hijau ( green trade ) , dan penyempurnaan campuran energi ( energy mix ) .
Pemerintah sudah menetapkan pendirian halte bus setiap 500 meter di pusat @-@ pusat kota , menurunkan tarif hingga 5 % atau lebih rendah bagi 54 produk ramah lingkungan , dan menonaktifkan pabrik @-@ pabrik batubara yang sudah tua dan tidak efisien .
Porsi bahan bakar non @-@ fosil dalam pemakaian energi primer diperkirakan bertambah menjadi 20 % pada tahun 2030 .
Besar kemungkinan semua target ini diterapkan dengan ketat , mengingat kuatnya dukungan politik dari pimpinan tertinggi .
Sementara itu di India , pemerintah negara bagian di Gujarat , Maharashtra , danTamil Nadu mencanangkan peresmian skema cap @-@ and @-@ trade untuk materi partikulat yang pertama di dunia .
Mahkamah Agung India bahkan mengusulkan pembebanan biaya ekstra terhadap kendaraan pribadi bermesin diesel di New Delhi .
Negara @-@ negara lain di kawasan Asia juga mengambil tindakan untuk meningkatkan kualitas udara .
Vietnam berencana membangun delapan jalur kereta api perkotaan dalam beberapa tahun ke depan .
Kota Bangkok , yang sudah memerangi polusi udara sejak 1990an , menanam 400,000 pohon .
Jepang memberikan subsidi bagi mobil hidrogen dan membangun beberapa kawasan baru yang khusus diperuntukkan bagi pejalan kaki .
Eropa , sebagai salah satu wilayah terkaya di dunia , selayaknya berada di baris terdepan dalam upaya menggalakkan keberlanjutan lingkungan hidup .
Namun begitu persoalannya menyangkut polusi udara , para pembuat kebijakan di Eropa harus berhenti menguliahi negara lain dan fokus menyelesaikan permasalahan mereka sendiri .
Alan Greenspan on Trial
The release of Alan Greenspan &apos;s ghostwritten memoirs The Age of Turbulence has elicited charges that he was not such a great central banker after all .
Stan Collender of National Journal sees the fingerprints of the White House on these attacks : Greenspan is harshly critical of George W. Bush &apos;s administration , after all , and to attack the credibility of Republican ex @-@ policymakers who are critical of Bush is standard counterpunching for it .
But what is one to make of the criticisms of Greenspan &apos;s tenure at the Federal Reserve ?
The indictment contains four counts : that Greenspan wrongly cheered the growth of non @-@ standard adjustable @-@ rate mortgages , which fueled the housing bubble ; that he wrongly endorsed Bush &apos;s tax cuts ; that he should have reined in the stock market bubble of the 1990 &quot; s ; and that he should have done the same with the real estate bubble of the 2000 &quot; s .
To the first two counts , Greenspan now pleads guilty .
He says that he did not understand how the growth of non @-@ standard mortgages had lured borrowers and investors into bearing dangerous risks .
He was , he now says , focusing on how fixed @-@ rate mortgages are relatively bad deals for borrowers in times of low inflation , which was a mistake .
Greenspan also pleads guilty to a mistake in early 2001 .
He thought that he was giving balanced testimony to Congress on government budget issues .
He testified that it is important to run surpluses to pay down the debt , but that surpluses must not be so large that the government winds up owning American industry .
He also testified that tax cuts are better than spending increases to keep surpluses from growing too large , but that uncertainty is enormous , so that any tax cuts should be canceled if they threatened to bring us back to an age of deficits .
Robert Rubin and Kent Conrad warned him that the press would not interpret his testimony as being balanced , and that Congress would interpret it as an excuse to abandon fiscal discipline .
They were right .
Greenspan also pleads guilty to misunderstanding the character of the Bush administration .
He thought that his old reality @-@ based friends from the Ford administration were back in power . He thought that he - and Treasury Secretary Paul O &apos;Neill - could win the quiet &quot; inside game &quot; for sensible policy without resorting to an &quot; outside game &quot; that would make his reappointment in 2004 unlikely .
He was wrong .
But how serious are these policy @-@ political crimes to which Greenspan now pleads guilty ?
In my view , they are misdemeanors .
Against them you have to set what former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers calls Greenspan &apos;s &quot; golden glove &quot; performance at avoiding and minimizing recessions during his years at the Fed .
The &quot; felonies &quot; of which Greenspan stands accused are the other two charges : that he should have done more to stop the stock market bubble of the late 1990 &quot; s , and that he should have done more to stop the housing bubble of the early 2000 &quot; s .
Here , Greenspan holds his ground , and pleads not guilty .
The only way , he says , for the Fed to have kept stock prices in reasonable equilibrium ranges in the late 1990 &quot; s would have been to raise interest rates so high that they hit the real economy on the head with a brick .
Interest rates high enough to curb stock market speculation would also have curbed construction and other forms of investment , raised unemployment , and sent the economy into recession .
To cause a significant current evil in order to avoid a possible future danger when our knowledge is limited and our judgments uncertain is , Greenspan believes , unwise .
In this , he is following a tradition of caution that extends from Edmund Burke to John Maynard Keynes .
Greenspan mounts a similar defense concerning the housing bubble .
High construction employment has been good for American workers in the past half @-@ decade - a period that has not produced much good for them .
Higher interest rates to reduce the housing boom seem , even in retrospect , ill advised if the cost is mass unemployment .
And Greenspan eschews paternalism : he would not assume the role of a regulator telling people that they cannot buy a house even though a lender is willing to finance it .
But Greenspan would have served the country and the world better if he had been somewhat more paternalist in slowing the growth of non @-@ standard adjustable @-@ rate mortgages .
He would have served the country and the world better had he been less of a loyal Republican working the inside game of trying to convince Bush &apos;s political advisors that good policy was important , and more of a nonpartisan steward of America &apos;s long @-@ term fiscal stability .
Of course , such a Greenspan would never have been re @-@ appointed .
All in all , Greenspan served the United States and the world well through his stewardship of monetary policy , especially by what he did not do : trying to stop stock and housing speculation by halting the economy in its tracks .
Assured Mutual Dependence
LONDON - During the Cold War , the certainty of &quot; mutually assured destruction &quot; steered the nuclear arms race away from catastrophe : a would @-@ be attacker would face immediate retaliation , inevitably ending in both sides &quot; annihilation .
Today , a very different race is taking place - a race for the earth &apos;s vital resources , and it threatens to undermine stability in key regions of the world .
The growing dependence of countries on one another &apos;s food , water , and energy requires that the global response to sustainability is taken to the highest political level .
Unlike the nuclear arms race of the twentieth century , the resource @-@ security agenda is not linear .
Mutually assured destruction was explicitly acknowledged during the Cold War in statements from both sides .
In the race for resources that defines the twenty @-@ first century , no actor is directly or indirectly threatening other players to curtail food or energy exports , but all bear the systemic risks .
Countries have become unavoidably interdependent , and climate change , water stress , and the loss of ecological resilience all increase the volatility of this mutual dependence .
In a world of limited and scarce resources , countries and companies will be forced to make decisions that affect one another &apos;s security .
In order to navigate this interdependence , the Earth Security Index 2014 , produced by the Earth Security Initiative , shows countries &quot; combined vulnerabilities that might increase the risk exposure of governments and companies , unless more strategic approaches and sustainable investments are put in place .
The ESI identifies four areas of mutual dependence that will likely shape global security in the coming decades :
· Choke points .
Countries &quot; growing demand for energy , water , food , and land cannot be satisfied without incurring tradeoffs among limited available resources .
Choke points are reached when the available resources are insufficient to satisfy demand .
In China and India , for example , this means that in certain regions there may not be enough water in the short term to run coal @-@ fired thermal power stations and irrigate large fields to grow crops .
In China , 60 % of planned coal @-@ fired power plants will be built in water @-@ stressed regions .
· Food .
The growing dependence of many countries on food , water , and energy imports creates new opportunities for trade and investment , but it also exposes countries to critical vulnerabilities .
Australia , for example , is a large coal exporter but imports most of its refined fuels and holds just three days of fuel stockpiles . The challenges of mutual dependence are particularly acute with respect to food .
As the ESI shows , some countries - including Egypt , Peru , and the United Arab Emirates - are heavily dependent on cereal imports from a small number of suppliers .
Moreover , grain suppliers &quot; exposure to extreme weather may compromise their ability to sustain supplies , with knock @-@ on effects for import @-@ dependent countries . In 2010 , for example , Russia imposed an export ban on wheat , following a severe drought .
The resulting food @-@ price increases are believed to have played a role in Egypt &apos;s revolution .
· Teleconnections .
Anticipating systemic ecological risks will be increasingly important for sectors such as reinsurance and infrastructure investments .
&quot; Teleconnections &quot; refer to weather events that are related to one another over large geographic distances .
They are well known to science but not properly discussed by the industries , investors , and governments whose security depends on environmental stability .
For example , tropical rainforests play a crucial function in maintaining stable weather and rainfall , acting as a &quot; pump &quot; that helps moisture travel between different regions .
Deforestation can thus have a destabilizing effect on weather patterns , amplifying the frequency and severity of extreme events such as floods and droughts .
The resulting liabilities to key industries and the financial sector are clear .
In Brazil , for example , deforestation in Amazonia has slowed significantly over the last five years , but Brazil has already lost more than 11 million hectares of rainforest ; its exposure to extreme weather has also steadily risen , with floods causing $ 4.7 billion in losses in 2011 alone .
· Land productivity bottlenecks : Agriculture systems are reaching resource limits , and persistent governance gaps compromise their ability to ensure food security , dignified livelihoods , and ecological stewardship .
Companies , investors , governments , and communities confront a series of critical barriers to increasing the food availability that the world needs : Local populations &quot; insecure land ownership ; receding water tables , owing to unsustainable extraction rates ; inefficient use of pollution @-@ causing inputs like fertilizers and pesticides ; the loss of vital ecosystems , affecting the resilience of food production ; and certain areas &quot; inability to cope with extreme weather .
In some regions of India , for example , these issues are playing out in tandem . Insecure land tenure acts as a disincentive for smallholder farmers to commit to productivity @-@ enhancing investments ; water extraction rates are depleting aquifers as a result of permissive policies ; and food security remains out of reach for millions of people , despite rapid economic growth in urban areas .
Countries and companies will increasingly need to invest in sustainable land in order to hedge their resource risks .
In 2015 , global frameworks are due to be agreed to address climate change , coordinate responses to natural disasters , and guide the world &apos;s development agenda .
Some of these multilateral processes - in particular , those seeking an ambitious global climate agreement - appear to be moving in slow motion and against the grain of geopolitical interests .
In the past , the case for high @-@ level nuclear governance was urgent and clear , but required processes for creating a common understanding of risks and opportunities across national borders .
Successful multilateral responses , like the Nuclear Non @-@ Proliferation Treaty , continue to be supported by more flexible global platforms , such as the Nuclear Threat Initiative , based on relationships and trust established outside the box of formal multilateralism .
This year , as world leaders discuss the next generation of sustainability , development , and climate frameworks , they will need to put their security and mutual dependence at the heart of the responses .
Here , too , the world will need to create informal platforms that supplement traditional multilateralism .
In particular , the outdated divisions between rich and poor countries and their responsibilities must be revised .
As new powers like China , Brazil , India , and other G @-@ 20 economies bid to reform global governance systems , their vulnerability to resource security must invigorate these processes .
Only then will the world be on track to improve the security of all .
Alexander Hamilton &apos;s Eurozone Tour
PRINCETON - Europe &apos;s debt crisis has piqued Europeans &quot; interest in American precedents for federal finance .
For many , Alexander Hamilton has become a contemporary hero .
Perhaps one day his face should appear on the € 10 banknote .
Specifically , for European states groaning under unbearable debt burdens , Hamilton &apos;s negotiation in 1790 of the new federal government &apos;s assumption of the states &quot; large debts looks like a tempting model .
Indeed , after Thomas Sargent won the Nobel Prize in Economics last year , he cited it as a precedent in his acceptance speech .
Hamilton argued - against James Madison and Thomas Jefferson - that the debts accumulated by the states during the War of Independence should be assumed by the federation .
There were two sides to his case , one practical , the other philosophical .
Initially , the most appealing argument for his plan was that it would provide greater security to creditors , and thus reduce interest rates , from the 6 % at which the states financed their debt to 4 % .
Hamilton emphasized the importance of a commitment to sound finance as a prerequisite to public economy . &quot; When the credit of a country is in any degree questionable , &quot; he argued , &quot; it never fails to give an extravagant premium upon all the loans it has occasion to make . &quot;
While that logic certainly appeals to Europeans today , Hamilton insisted on a stronger reason for pursuing sound finance than merely the pursuit of expediency .
There is , he maintained , &quot; an intimate connection between public virtue and public happiness . &quot;
That virtue consisted in honoring commitments , and it would build solidarity in the new political community of the United States .
Indeed , public virtue made federal finance what he called &quot; the powerful cement of our union . &quot;
The condition for success in the American case was that the US raised its own revenue , with federally administered customs houses initially providing the bulk of its receipts .
The logic of a need for specific revenue applies also in modern Europe , where a reformed fiscal system might include common administration of value @-@ added tax ( with the additional benefit of eliminating a considerable amount of cross @-@ border fraud ) .
In the American case , however , unity carried a price : a ceiling was imposed on Virginia &apos;s exposure to the common debt .
Only this inducement to the most powerful state in the union persuaded Madison to drop his opposition to the proposal .
That compromise ( which also led to the US capital &apos;s relocation to the District of Columbia , on the border of Virginia and Maryland ) may serve as a precedent for limiting Germany &apos;s liabilities if Eurobonds , or some other debt @-@ mutualization scheme , are introduced .
The US experiment in federalized finance was not immediately successful .
Two important components of Hamilton &apos;s financial architecture were not realized , or were realized imperfectly .
He proposed a model of joint @-@ stock banking on a national scale , which ran into immediate opposition ( curiously , his proposal was much more influential in Canada ) .
Second , opponents eventually blocked his proposal for a national central bank .
The charter of the First Bank of the United States was allowed to lapse in 1811 ; a generation later , in 1836 , President Andrew Jackson successfully opposed the charter of the Second Bank of the United States .
Nor did the Hamiltonian scheme of federal finance guarantee a peaceful commonwealth .
In fact , the fiscal union proved to be explosive rather than adhesive .
As international capital markets developed in the early nineteenth century , state governments borrowed on a large scale , quickly turning them from creditors into debtors .
A wave of state defaults followed in the late 1830 &quot; s .
A generation later , in the 1860 &quot; s , the Civil War between northern and southern states resulted in large part from a dispute about the character of financial burdens -amp at least from the South &apos;s perspective .
Abraham Lincoln &apos;s original proposal to end the immoral practice of slavery by compensating slave owners for manumission was unacceptably expensive , so the Union , according to the slave @-@ holding Confederacy , was determined to expropriate the South .
The federal assumption of states &quot; debts by itself could not guarantee political order .
The Civil War revealed the centrality of a common foundation of morality to Hamilton &apos;s approach to debt and public finance .
As a result , his approach foundered on the differences between the different states &quot; conception of morality .
Europeans today have latched onto the practical side of Hamilton &apos;s argument - that is , the idea that debt mutualization might be a means to cheaper credit ; but they have worked out neither the political institutions , nor the shared public virtue , that Hamilton deemed crucial .
The extended and politicized debate about debt restructuring has made a Hamiltonian solution more difficult , because the credit of the countries that would be party to it has become questionable .
An obvious starting point for a Hamiltonian Europe would be to set some standard limit for federalized national debt - perhaps the tarnished threshold of 60 % of GDP that was mandated ( without adequate enforcement ) by the Maastricht convergence criteria , or perhaps a lower limit .
Debt exceeding that amount would be left to the responsibility of the member states .
Collective burden @-@ sharing is in the long run the only non @-@ catastrophic way out of Europe &apos;s current crisis , but that requires a substantially greater degree of political accountability and control on a European level .
The lesson to be learned from Hamilton and the US is that the necessary institutions will not function without a greater degree of moral consensus as well .
Alexievich &apos;s Achievement
NEW YORK - It was 1985 , and change was in the air in the Soviet Union .
Aging general secretaries were dropping like flies .
Elem Klimov &apos;s cinematic magnum opus &quot; Come and See &quot; depicted World War II without the heroics on which we were reared , highlighting the tremendous human suffering instead .
Klimov &apos;s approach echoed that of Svetlana Alexievich - this year &apos;s Nobel laureate in literature - in her first book , War &apos;s Unwomanly Face , published the year before .
But , whereas many rushed to see Klimov &apos;s film , Alexievich &apos;s book did not seem to excite readers .
The Soviet Union , supposedly progressive , remained rooted in patriarchy .
Women had jobs , but rarely careers .
Women writers wrote exquisite poetry and prose , and they were officially recognized as the equals ( well , almost ) of their male peers ; but they tended to avoid certain topics - and war was a man &apos;s business .
And thus Alexievich begins War &apos;s Unwomanly Face , &quot; There had been more than 3,000 wars in the world , and even more books .
But all we know about war is what men told us . &quot;
And men told us a lot . &quot; We always remembered the war , &quot; Alexievich recalled , &quot; at school , at home , at weddings and christenings , during holidays and funerals .
War and post @-@ war lived in the home of our soul . &quot; Indeed , I had heard so much about the war by the time War &apos;s Unwomanly Face came out , I had little interest in hearing more about it - whether the suffering and sacrifice or the heroism and triumph - from any perspective .
Fast @-@ forward almost a decade .
America was big on gender politics , and , as a graduate student there , I was embarrassed to be behind .
So I finally read War &apos;s Unwomanly Face .
To my surprise , it was not WWII that I learned about ; rather , I got my first glimpse into the emotions that my own relatives experienced , as they fought and survived the war .
People like my grandmother had recounted only the oft @-@ repeated male story , completely denying her own experience .
But her experience mattered , and Alexievich recognized that .
I was so inspired by War &apos;s Unwomanly Face that a few years ago I wrote my own book detailing the endurance of women in my family in the war @-@ ravaged Soviet Union .
Other books by Alexievich were similarly inspiring .
Zinky Boys : Soviet Voices from the Afghanistan War ( 1991 ) spoke of a distant fight - the nine @-@ year Soviet war in Afghanistan - that eroded Russian culture and humanity , while Voices from Chernobyl : The Oral History of a Nuclear Disaster ( 1997 ) meditated on the global significance of the nuclear disaster .
Public reaction to both was mixed .
Neither the state nor the people quite knew how they felt about Afghanistan or Chernobyl - one a lost war , the other an incomprehensible catastrophe .
Alexievich has described herself as &quot; an ear , not a pen . &quot;
She listens and builds a story , before writing it down .
Her talent is to make the private public , to expose the thoughts that people are afraid to think .
Alexievich does not shy away from the horrific aspects of her subject matter , exemplified in a passage from War &apos;s Unwomanly Face : &quot; We didn &apos;t just shoot &#91; prisoners &#93; ... we pinned them up , like pigs , with ramrods , cut into pieces .
I went to observe ... I waited for that moment when their eyes would start bursting from pain . &quot; While this brutally matter @-@ of @-@ fact tone can make readers uneasy ( indeed , it was one reason why I took so long to read the book ) , we cannot afford to be ignorant of the truth , even - or perhaps especially - if it makes us squirm .
Honest , daring , and sad , Alexievich &apos;s books - containing stories in which life , broken and stolen , is worse than death - show how a woman &apos;s perspective can humanize world problems and make them understandable to all .
In some ways , Alexievich &apos;s literary contribution , which the Nobel committee called &quot; a monument to suffering and courage in our time , &quot; is equal to that of the Austrian novelist and playwright Elfriede Jelinek , whom the committee recognized in 2004 for her work &apos;s feminist critique of Austria &apos;s Nazi past and patriarchal present .
Now , like Jelinek , whose work was largely unknown to non @-@ German readers until she won the Nobel , Alexievich is finally being recognized for her profound impact .
Her award sends a powerful message - not only about her talent , but also about the importance of the female perspective in the public sphere .
To be sure , Alexievich was far from invisible before .
Her books have been translated into 20 languages , with millions in circulation .
And , like many other Nobel laureates , including Jelinek , she has played an active role in civil society , most recently taking a stand against Russia &apos;s annexation of Crimea .
Interestingly , the frequency with which Nobel Prizes have been awarded to women has been increasing .
In 1991 , Nadine Gordimer was the first woman in more than a quarter @-@ century to receive the literature prize ; now , women receive it every 2 @-@ 3 years .
Moreover , this summer , the writer and literary critic Sarah Danius became the first woman in 200 years to serve as the permanent secretary of the Swedish Academy , which chooses the Nobel laureate in literature .
But the patriarchal culture from which Alexievich emerged is far from dead .
Recognizing the ways in which she has enriched people &apos;s thinking about difficult - and historically masculine - subjects can only be good , not only for the women she inspires , but also for the men she influences .
I have just finished Alexievich &apos;s latest dreadful masterpiece , Secondhand Time , a brutal account of the chaotic Russian capitalism of the 1990s .
In recent interviews , Alexievich has said she is working on two more books - one about love , the other about aging .
I don &apos;t want to read either of them , but I will .
A Sunni @-@ Shia Bridge Too Far
BAGHDAD - Iraq &apos;s recent parliamentary election , the first since United States troops left the country in 2011 , was held amid a rising tide of violence that is fast approaching the levels experienced during the 2005 @-@ 2007 insurgency .
Can the new government restore order and address the many immense challenges that Iraq faces ?
The challenges are indeed daunting .
The authorities must resolve fundamental constitutional questions ( such as whether Iraq should be a federal state or a confederation ) , rebuild civil society , reform state institutions , reconstruct the economy , and end the waste and corruption in the oil sector .
But perhaps the most intractable challenge of all is bridging the sectarian rift between the country &apos;s Shia and Sunni citizens .
These fissures are mirrored in other Arab countries ( such as Syria , Lebanon , the Gulf countries , and Yemen ) and , increasingly , in the wider Muslim world ( including Pakistan , Malaysia , and Indonesia ) .
Is this a historical aberration , or are Islam &apos;s two largest sects condemned to perpetual mutual hostility ?
Certainly , there have been periods when the two communities have coexisted peacefully .
But what matters today is that Shia and Sunni relate to their past differently , and that this historical memory can be distorted - and even invented - to create mistrust and hate .
The overthrow of the first Muslim dynasty , the staunchly anti @-@ Shia Umayyads , in the year 750 , by the Abbasids , who traced their lineage to the Prophet Muhammad &apos;s uncle , raised hopes , albeit short @-@ lived , of a Sunni @-@ Shia rapprochement .
The 500 years of Abbasid reign that followed provide many valuable illustrations of how these two communities subsequently related to each other .
In particular , there is much to be learned from the different legacies of the caliph al @-@ Nasir ( 1180 @-@ 1225 ) and the last Abbasid caliph , al @-@ Musta &apos;sim ( 1242 @-@ 1258 ) .
The rule of al @-@ Nasir - who viewed the Shia as an intrinsic part of the Islamic community and sought to treat all of his subjects equally - was characterized by a marked decrease in sectarian tensions .
By contrast , Sunni @-@ Shia clashes - including killings , arson , and other violence - were common during al @-@ Musta &apos;sim &apos;s rule .
These examples demonstrate the importance of good leadership when communities that uphold different claims to the truth are subject to the same political authority - especially when these communities seek assurance that their survival is not threatened .
Iraq &apos;s current political leaders need to learn from this past and ensure that none of the country &apos;s communities face marginalization or discrimination - lessons that apply throughout the Muslim world .
In Pakistan , for example , there are sectarian killings almost daily ; in Malaysia , the tiny Shia population is viewed as an existential threat ; and incendiary language dominates discourse about rival sects in Wahhabi circles in Saudi Arabia and far beyond .
Politics and power struggles explain much of the violence and mistrust .
Fear of Iranian @-@ led hegemony , for example , has focused Gulf leaders &quot; minds on their Shia population &apos;s loyalty .
Malaysia &apos;s political parties use anti @-@ Shia animus to spread fear , helping to attract votes and consolidate power .
Syria and its regional allies are determined to protect a new regional balance of power that shifted in their favor following the US @-@ led invasion of Iraq .
But political calculation cannot explain everything .
The fall of Saddam Hussein in 2003 provides a good example of how a political event , viewed through a sectarian lens , can be interpreted differently .
The US destruction of the Iraqi state brought about a precarious new order that sought to redress years of Sunni dominance by favoring the Shia .
However , the shock of sudden Sunni disempowerment generated a discourse , widely shared in the Muslim world , in which the Shia are guilty of collusion in the US occupation of the country - a view reinforced by events in Syria .
According to this thesis , the Shia simply reverted to their &quot; historic &quot; role as wreckers and fifth columnists .
Was it not the case , it is claimed , that the Shia also colluded with the Mongols in the fall of Baghdad in 1258 , culminating in the death of the last Abbasid caliph and the destruction of the Abbasid Empire , the &quot; universal state &quot; of Muslims ?
Several medieval Muslim historians pointed to the role of the Shia vizier Ibn al- &quot; Alqami , arguing that he plotted with the Mongols to bring down the caliphate .
Once the preserve of a handful of scholars , the Ibn al- &quot; Alqami story now plays a prominent part in today &apos;s Sunni- Shia disputes .
Indeed , &quot; &quot; Alaqima , &quot; the plural form of the Arabic name &quot; &quot; Alqami , &quot; is now applied to the Shia as short @-@ hand for treachery .
Social media forums are replete with polemics about the Shia role in assisting both Mongol and US invaders .
Many even claim that Iraq &apos;s Shia are al- &quot; Alqami &apos;s descendants , and that Nouri al @-@ Maliki , Iraq &apos;s Prime Minister , is his modern incarnation .
These diatribes reflect Iraqi &apos;s polarized historical memory .
Despite ample historical evidence of peaceful inter @-@ communal relations , many people - whether through simple ignorance of history or the need to assert the supremacy of one version of the truth - prefer to consecrate narratives of treachery and betrayal that perpetuate hatred .
More important , the current situation reflects a lack of wisdom , responsibility , and basic decency on the part of political and religious leaders , who prefer to fuel , rather than dampen , inter @-@ communal strife .
Sadly , intolerance has now become a generalized condition .
There is too little knowledge about other communities &quot; beliefs and history , and what little exists has been overwhelmed by sectarian anger and its poisonous rhetoric .
As long as Sunnis and Shia refuse to think about their past together , it is difficult to foresee a tranquil future together .
And if political and religious leaders are unable or unwilling to seek accommodation , it will be up to like @-@ minded individuals , groups , and civil @-@ society institutions to rebuild mutual respect and find ways to cooperate .
Doing so will require knowledge , patience , and , above all , open minds and hearts .
All for One Tax and One Tax for All ?
CAMBRIDGE - When the next full @-@ scale global financial crisis hits , let it not be said that the International Monetary Fund never took a stab at forestalling it .
Recently , the IMF proposed a new global tax on financial institutions loosely in proportion to their size , as well as a tax on banks &quot; profits and bonuses .
The Fund &apos;s proposal has been greeted with predictable disdain and derision by the financial industry .
More interesting and significant are the mixed reviews from G @-@ 20 presidents and finance ministers .
Governments at the epicenter of the recent financial crisis , especially the United States and the United Kingdom , are downright enthusiastic , particularly about the tax on size .
After all , they want to do that anyway .
Countries that did not experience recent bank meltdowns , such as Canada , Australia , China , Brazil , and India , are unenthusiastic .
Why should they change systems that proved so resilient ?
It is all too easy to criticize the specifics of the IMF plan .
But the IMF &apos;s big @-@ picture diagnosis of the problem gets a lot right .
Financial systems are bloated by implicit taxpayer guarantees , which allow banks , particularly large ones , to borrow money at interest rates that do not fully reflect the risks they take in search of outsized profits .
Since that risk is then passed on to taxpayers , imposing taxes on financial firms in proportion to their borrowing is a simple way to ensure fairness .
&quot; What risks ? &quot; the financial firms demand to know .
The average cost of the bailouts was &quot; only &quot; a few percentage points of GNP .
And the crisis was a once @-@ in @-@ a @-@ half @-@ century event .
The IMF rightly points out that these claims are nonsense .
During the crisis , taxpayers were on the hook for almost a quarter of national income .
Perhaps the next crisis will not turn out so &quot; well , &quot; and the losses borne by the public will be staggering .
Even with the &quot; success &quot; of the bailouts , countries suffered massive output losses due to recessions and sustained subpar growth .
But , while regulation must address the oversized bank balance sheets that were at the root of the crisis , the IMF is right not to focus excessively on fixing the &quot; too big to fail &quot; problem .
A surprising number of pundits seem to think that if one could only break up the big banks , governments would be far more resilient to bailouts , and the whole &quot; moral hazard &quot; problem would be muted .
That logic is dubious , given how many similar crises have hit widely differing systems over the centuries .
A systemic crisis that simultaneously hits a large number of medium @-@ sized banks would put just as much pressure on governments to bail out the system as would a crisis that hits a couple of large banks .
There are altogether too many complex ideas floating around that look good on paper , but might well prove deeply flawed in a big @-@ time crisis .
Any robust solution must be reasonably simple to understand and implement .
The IMF proposal seems to pass these tests .
By contrast , some finance specialists favor forcing banks to rely much more on &quot; contingent &quot; debt that can be forcibly converted to ( possibly worthless ) stock in the event of a system @-@ wide meltdown .
But how this form of &quot; pre @-@ packaged bankruptcy &quot; could be implemented in a world of widely different legal , political , and banking systems is unclear .
Financial history is littered with untested safety @-@ net devices that failed in a crisis .
Better to rein in the growth of the system .
The IMF is on much weaker ground , however , in thinking that its one @-@ size @-@ fits @-@ all global tax system will somehow level the playing field internationally .
It won &apos;t .
Countries that now have solid financial regulatory systems in place are already effectively &quot; taxing &quot; their financial firms more than , say , the US and the UK , where financial regulation is more minimal .
The US and the UK don &apos;t want to weaken their competitive advantage by taxing banks while some other countries do not .
But it is their systems that are in the greatest and most urgent need of stronger checks and balances .
Let &apos;s not go too far in defending the &quot; holdout &quot; countries that are resisting the IMF proposal .
These countries need to recognize that if the US and the UK do implement even modest reforms , a lot of capital will flow elsewhere , potentially overwhelming regulatory systems that seemed to work well until now .
And what about the second tax proposed by the IMF , on banks &quot; profits and bonuses ?
Such a tax is politically appealing , but ultimately it makes little sense - except , perhaps , in a crisis year when bank subsidies are glaringly transparent .
It would be better to improve financial @-@ market regulation directly and let national tax systems handle banks &quot; income like that of any other industry .
The IMF &apos;s first effort at prescribing a cure may be flawed , but its diagnosis of a financial sector bloated by moral hazard is manifestly correct .
Let &apos;s hope that when the G @-@ 20 leaders meet later this year , they decide to take the problem seriously instead of tabling discussion for a decade or two until the next crisis is upon us .
All in the Family
MUNICH - Big economic crises often cause iconic companies to falter .
Rupert Murdoch &apos;s media empire is a model of the modern global enterprise .
A particularly dynamic and innovative business model came from outside and took over central aspects of British and then American public life .
That model is now threatened by the fallout from the scandal that started with phone hacking in Murdoch &apos;s British press operations .
The Murdoch experience is a microcosm of how modern globalization works .
Murdoch always looked like a foreign intrusion into British life .
It was not just that he was Australian ; he also brought new ideas .
In particular , the application of digital technology , introduced after a ferocious struggle with the powerful print unions , brought substantial cost savings and allowed a new era of journalism .
Even more importantly , Murdoch represented a concept of family business that is common in many parts of the world , but relatively rare in Britain and the United States .
Family capitalism in the continental European model uses relatively little capital to achieve maximum control .
It frequently depends on very complex corporate structures , with multiple layers of holding companies , as well as privileged shares that can guarantee the continuation of control .
This sort of firm is also very common in the most dynamic emerging @-@ market economies in Asia and Latin America .
The Murdoch family holds only 12 % of the shares of News Corporation , the top @-@ level holding company , but it wields about two @-@ fifths of the voting rights ; other votes are held by a loyal Saudi prince .
For decades , academic analysts have been fighting over whether such large @-@ scale family businesses should be considered beneficial .
Their defenders point out that such companies often have a much longer @-@ term vision than is true of managerial capitalism , which enables them to establish strong and enduring relationships with their customers and suppliers .
At least in the case of the Murdoch empire , it now appears that they pursue long and binding relationships with politicians and the police as well .
Indeed , political entanglements are one of two sources of weakness in European @-@ style family capitalism , as owners seek political advantages and preferred access as much as they strive for technical innovation .
Murdoch &apos;s empire depended on its closeness to politicians .
In retrospect , three successive British prime ministers - Tony Blair , Gordon Brown , and David Cameron - were on overly familiar terms with a manipulative business leader .
Cameron now talks about the need for &quot; a healthier relationship between politicians and media owners . &quot;
And Murdoch apparently is now saying that he wishes that all these prime ministers would &quot; leave me alone . &quot;
The second notorious weakness of family businesses is the problem of succession .
When he appeared before the British parliament in July , Rupert Murdoch looked like an old man , remote and out of control .
In old @-@ style family firms , there is a clear rule of succession that the oldest son takes over .
But that rule is rightly recognized as being potentially dysfunctional .
There is obviously no guarantee that the oldest son is the best businessman , and the result could be bitter and ferocious sibling rivalry .
Such succession disputes become even more acute when there are multiple marriages and multiple sets of competing children .
Until the eruption of the current scandal , the youngest of Murdoch &apos;s three children from his second marriage , James , was generally believed to stand the greatest chance of succeeding his father .
The complexities of modern marriage patterns make family life much more fraught , especially when phenomenal power and huge sums of money are involved .
All three of Murdoch &apos;s marriages have produced children , though those from his current relationship are too young to be considered potential corporate successors .
In addition , succession planning can become complicated by the emergence of &quot; substitute children &quot; from the company &apos;s management .
Rebekah Brooks , the editor of The News of the World at the beginning of the phone @-@ hacking scandal , and subsequently the chief executive of News International , Murdoch &apos;s British subsidiary , played precisely such a role .
The disintegration of the business empire is then accompanied and amplified by bitter disputes between the children and the substitute children .
Indeed , the crisis of the Murdoch family &apos;s business empire is neither unique nor unprecedented .
In the first half of the 1990 &quot; s , many observers of the alleged Asian economic miracle emphasized trust and families &quot; capacity to cooperate with political authorities in order to realize long @-@ term growth plans .
After the 1997 @-@ 1998 Asia crisis , and as authoritarian regimes in South Korea and Indonesia disintegrated , these relationships were suddenly interpreted as corrupt , and the counter @-@ view - that &quot; crony capitalism &quot; had become entrenched in these countries - soon prevailed .
The Arab Spring has been in large part a movement against corrupt family capitalism , embodied not only in ruling families like the Ben Alis , the Mubaraks , and the Assads , but also in the large family business empires that depended on and supported them .
As a result of globalization , large family firms could increase their size and their geographic range .
But globalization also increases the chances of backlashes that focus on the vulnerabilities , weaknesses , and mistakes of big family firms .
They are vulnerable to an Arab Spring ( and a British summer ) - and maybe to a US autumn that will focus not just on the Murdochs &quot; business , but also on its interplay with politics .
All Man &apos;s Land
NEW DELHI - Ernest Hemingway &apos;s collection of stories , Men without Women , examines tense gender relationships .
In a particularly poignant story , a young man convinces his partner to have an abortion , viewing their unborn child as a hindrance to the status quo .
Frustrated , the woman gives in .
That story , published more than 80 years ago , remains relevant today in India , where female fetuses face severe risks .
According to the 2011 census , the sex ratio of the country &apos;s children has dipped from 927 females per 1000 males to 914 , a 60 @-@ year low .
Ratios in the northern states are particularly alarming : only Himachal Pradesh now has a ratio of girls to boys above 900 .
Despite being illegal , ultrasound sex @-@ determination tests are being used across India to identify for abortion extraordinary numbers of healthy female fetuses .
But there are serious concerns about legal operations , too .
Genitoplasty - a sex @-@ change operation on newborn girls - is a mushrooming , and deeply disturbing , business in India .
There &apos;s only one word for it : gendercide .
Left unchecked , it will leave India &apos;s next generation of men with a severe shortage of women .
Indian couples have a strong cultural preference , bordering on obsession , for sons over daughters - despite the strides in education and employment that women have made over the last few decades .
Education and wealth have nothing to do with it - in fact , some of the worst @-@ affected areas are in India &apos;s wealthiest cities .
However discomfiting a possibility , the real culprit might be Indian culture and tradition itself .
The expenses and pressure of the dowry system , and the fact that , in most joint families , only sons inherit property and wealth , contribute to this favoritism .
Perhaps just as important is that sons typically live with their parents even after they are married , and assume responsibility for parents in their old age .
Daughters , who live with their in @-@ laws after they marry , are viewed as amanat - someone else &apos;s property .
In short , sons represent income and daughters an expense .
In the old days , when families typically had 5 @-@ 10 children , this didn &apos;t matter so much .
The number of sons and daughters often evened out .
But , for today &apos;s smaller families , whether the children are two boys or two girls influences everything from financial planning to preparations for old age .
Many have argued that Indian women should stand up to their families and refuse to abort their daughters .
But Indian women want male children just as much .
Unlike Hemingway &apos;s character , they are often more than willing to abort a girl and try for a boy .
The novelist Salman Rushdie once put the question to supporters of abortion rights : &quot; What should be done when a woman uses her power over her own body to discriminate against female fetuses ? &quot;
This raises other questions concerning the consequences of a large shortage of girls .
Will women be valued and treasured ?
Or will the oversupply of men result in more bride trafficking , sexual violence , and female suicides ?
Niall Ferguson , the British historian , cites scholars who attribute Japan &apos;s imperial expansion after 1914 to a male youth bulge , and who link the rise of Islamist extremism to an Islamic youth bulge .
&quot; Maybe the coming generation of Asian men without women will find harmless outlets for their inevitable frustrations , like team sports or video games .
But I doubt it , &quot; he writes .
He warns us not to be surprised if , in the coming generation , &quot; shrill nationalism is replaced by macho militarism or even imperialism . &quot;
Unfortunately , there is no instant solution .
Saving our girls will require radically altering some of Indian society &apos;s family arrangements , traditions , and attitudes .
And there is no easy way to accomplish this .
Legislation alone won &apos;t help , for tradition is a law unto itself .
Hindu religious law , for example , allows a woman to claim an equal share in her parents &quot; wealth , but few exercise this right .
Culturally , she feels that she does not have an equal claim on her father &apos;s property .
Nonetheless , India does need new laws - direct and enforceable - that clamp down on the cultural practices that underpin destructive traditions .
For example , India could enforce a ceiling on wedding expenditure - typically a father &apos;s biggest expense associated with his daughter .
Constrained from spending on the wedding , he would compensate her differently - perhaps with a larger inheritance .
Gradually , this would become the norm , and tradition would adjust accordingly .
( Interestingly , the state of Kerala , whose people adhere to matrilineal inheritance , has among the most equal sex ratios and literacy rates in India . )
A more radical measure , which some have advocated , would be direction intervene , with the state providing benefits for families with more girls .
Perhaps the authorities could also penalize families with boys , at least temporarily .
India imagines herself as a woman - Bharat Mata , or Mother India .
The irony is that , unless far @-@ reaching changes are made soon , Mother India could eventually be the only woman left in the country .
All Quiet on the Burundi Front ?
Like its neighbors , Congo and Rwanda , Burundi is a war @-@ torn land .
Its troubles have not riveted world attention in recent years , probably because Burundi &apos;s rebels failed to plumb the depths of savagery seen in Rwanda and Congo .
But , unlike its neighbors , this year can mark a turning point for Burundi .
Thanks to agreements between the rebels and the government that Nelson Mandela and South African Vice President Jacob Zuma helped broker , Burundi can now either turn decisively away from civil strife , or risk a return to the machete politics that have mauled Africa &apos;s Great Lakes region for a decade .
Since its independence from Belgium in 1962 , Burundi has suffered five episodes of what amounts to the same civil war .
About 600,000 people have been killed and hundreds of thousands made into refugees .
Many portray this war as the result of hatred between the majority Hutu and the minority Tutsi .
But this does not explain why these groups supposedly hate each other so much .
Burundi &apos;s cultural and linguistic homogeneity , rare in Africa , belies the simplistic view that the Hutu and Tutsi fight because they are so different .
Indeed , most countries are far more heterogeneous than Burundi but have never fallen into ethnic war .
To understand the dynamics of conflict in Burundi , we need to examine three root causes .
The first such cause is the legacy of colonization .
In the 1920 &apos;s and 1930 &apos;s , the Belgian authorities enacted policies that defined the population along ethnic lines and favored the Tutsi in a deliberate - and successful - effort to divide society and fan resentment among Hutu leaders .
Second , the bloody 1959 revolution in Rwanda , a country mirroring Burundi &apos;s ethnic and social structure , induced Burundi &apos;s Tutsi to cling even more tightly to power .
At the same time , Burundi &apos;s Hutu saw Rwanda as a role model and believed their ethnic majority should guarantee them de facto control of the country .
Third , successive governments widened the ethnic divide through catastrophically predatory governance .
A tiny elite of Tutsi from the southern province of Bururi controlled all institutions , exploiting them to the fullest .
The army brutally suppressed any opposition to Bururi rule .
No surprise , then , that millions of Burundians felt alienated , and that many resorted to violence .
In October 1993 , the killing by members of the army of Melchior Ndadaye , the first civilian , Hutu , non @-@ Bururi , and democratically elected president provoked a bloody reaction by the Hutu .
Presidential assassinations do not necessarily lead to civil wars , but in Burundi , a large @-@ scale massacre of Tutsi civilians by Hutu immediately followed the coup attempt .
Fearing retribution by the Tutsi @-@ dominated army , large numbers of Hutu fled the country while armed rebels engaged the army .
For the first time , the army failed to crush the rebellion .
As a result , the Tutsi @-@ dominated government entered into negotiations with Hutu leaders , which led to the signing of a political accord in August 2000 .
But the accord had a major flaw : the absence of a cease @-@ fire .
Violence only receded in 2003 , when the main rebel group , the
These breakthroughs came about thanks to the dedicated mediation of Mandela and Zuma .
The presidents of Uganda and Tanzania , and the international community in general , also exerted leverage .
( Burundi is an aid @-@ dependent country , so donors have considerable sway in influencing its rulers &apos; behavior . )
The question now is whether each party will honor its commitments .
What guarantees exist that the rebel groups will fully demobilize ?
Why should the rebels believe that the government will honor its commitments once they no longer represent a threat ?
Neither party , it seems , can commit credibly to peace .
Burundi &apos;s donors need to join hands with African leaders to make certain that the agreements are implemented .
Everyone agrees that recent pledges of a $ 1 billion in aid are a sign that donors are ready to show Burundians that peace has a dividend .
But aid will help build peace only if it is carefully used .
It must be distributed to the needy rather than favoring the elite - a tendency established in the past .
Yet it would be dangerous to redress past imbalances solely at the expense of traditional beneficiaries , especially because they remain powerful enough to derail the peace process .
It is encouraging to note that Burundi &apos;s leaders have so far managed to integrate leaders from the opposition and rebel groups into the country &apos;s political and military institutions without dismissing incumbents .
The danger is that applying this approach rigorously will invariably result in a bloated civil service and army .
But while downsizing government may be fashionable in the West , now is not the time for slimming down Burundi &apos;s state sector .
For once , over employment is politically justified .
The international community must understand that the political benefits of not alienating the old elite while offering new opportunities to traditionally excluded groups outweigh the financial cost .
Burundi will need even deeper pockets from its donors to transform today &apos;s political overtures into sustainable peace .
All Stimulus Roads Lead to China
BEIJING - Now that the &quot; green shoots &quot; of recovery have withered , the debate over fiscal stimulus is back with a vengeance .
In the United States , those who argue for another stimulus package observe that it was always wishful thinking to believe that a $ 787 billion package could offset a $ 3 trillion fall in private spending .
But unemployment has risen even faster and further than expected .
Combine this with the continued fall in housing prices , and it is understandable that consumer spending remains depressed .
The banks , having been recapitalized only to the extent necessary to keep them afloat , still have weak balance sheets .
Their consequent reluctance to lend constrains investment .
Meanwhile , state governments , seeing revenues fall as a result of lower taxable incomes last year , are cutting back like mad .
If there was a case for additional stimulus back in February , that case is even stronger now .
But the case against additional stimulus is also strong .
The US federal deficit is an alarming 12 % of GDP , and public debt as a share of national income is already projected to double , to 80 % of GDP .
The idea that the US can grow out of its debt burden , as did Finland and Sweden following their financial crises in the 1990 &quot; s , seems unrealistic .
Given all this , more deficit spending will only stoke fears of higher future taxes and inflation .
It will encourage the reemergence of global imbalances .
And it will not reassure consumers or investors .
It is possible to argue the economics both ways , but the politics all point in one direction .
The US Congress lacks the stomach for another stimulus package .
It has already faced intense criticism for its failure to get the country &apos;s fiscal house in order .
The slowness with which the first stimulus has been rolled out , and the fact that it will take even more time for its full effects to be felt , provides more fodder for the chattering classes .
Disappointment over the effects of the TARP has already destroyed popular - and Congressional - support for more public money to recapitalize the banks .
So , even those who find the economic logic of arguments for fiscal activism compelling must acknowledge that the politics are not supportive .
A second stimulus simply is not in the cards .
If there is going to be more aggregate demand , it can come from only one place .
That place is not Europe or Japan , where debts are even higher than in the US - and the demographic preconditions for servicing them less favorable .
Rather , it is emerging markets like China .
The problem is that China has already done a lot to stimulate domestic demand , both through government spending and by directing its banks to lend .
As a result , its stock market is frothy , and it is experiencing an alarming property boom .
Through May , property prices were up 18 % year on year .
Understandably , Chinese officials worry about bubble trouble .
The obvious way to square this circle is to spend more on imports .
China can purchase more industrial machinery , transport equipment , and steelmaking material , which are among its leading imports from the US .
Directing spending toward imports of capital equipment would avoid overheating China &apos;s own markets , boost the economy &apos;s productive capacity ( and thus its ability to grow in the future ) , and support demand for US , European , and Japanese products just when such support is needed most .
This strategy is not without risks .
Allowing the renminbi to appreciate as a way of encouraging imports may also discourage exports , the traditional motor of Chinese growth .
And lowering administrative barriers to imports might redirect more spending toward foreign goods than the authorities intend .
But these are risks worth taking if China is serious about assuming a global leadership role .
The question is what China will get in return .
And the answer brings us back , full circle , to where we started , namely to US fiscal policy .
China is worried that its more than $ 1 trillion investment in US Treasury securities will not hold its value .
It wants reassurance that the US will stand behind its debts .
It therefore wants to see a credible program for balancing the US budget once the recession ends .
And , tough talk notwithstanding , the Obama administration has yet to offer a credible roadmap for fiscal consolidation .
Doing so would reassure American taxpayers worried about current deficits .
Just as importantly , it would reassure Chinese policymakers .
We live in a multipolar world where neither the US nor China is large enough to exercise global economic leadership on its own .
For China , leadership means assuming additional risks .
But for this to be tolerable , the US needs to relieve China of existing risks .
Only by working together can the two countries lead the world economy out of its current doldrums .
All the Queen &apos;s Children
NEW YORK - Does monarchy - constitutional monarchy , that is , not the despotic kind - have any redeeming features left ?
The arguments against maintaining kings and queens are mostly quite rational .
It is unreasonable in this democratic age to pay special deference to people solely on the basis of their birth .
Are we really supposed to admire and love modern monarchies , such as the British House of Windsor , even more so today , just because some new princess has been plucked from the middle class ?
Monarchy has an infantilizing effect .
Witness how otherwise sensible adults are reduced to nervously grinning sycophants when they are granted the privilege of touching an extended royal hand .
At great monarchical displays , such as the royal wedding in London , millions become enthralled by child @-@ like dreams of a &quot; fairy @-@ tale &quot; marriage .
The mystique of immense wealth , noble birth , and great exclusivity is further sustained by the global mass media that promote these rituals .
Now , one might argue that the dignified pomp of Queen Elizabeth II is preferable to the tawdry grandiosity of Silvio Berlusconi , Madonna , or Cristiano Ronaldo .
In fact , the British monarchy , especially , has been reinventing itself by adopting many of the most vulgar features of modern showbiz or sports celebrity .
And the worlds of royalty and popular fame often overlap .
For example , David Beckham and his ex @-@ pop @-@ star wife Victoria , live out their own dream of royalty , aping some of its gaudiest aspects .
They also happened to be among the favored guests at the latest royal wedding .
Similarly , while Britain has many outstanding musicians , the favorite of the royal court is Elton John .
Infantile or not , there is a common human craving for taking vicarious pleasure in the lives of kings , queens , and other shining stars .
To call these people &apos;s ostentatious displays of extravagance wasteful is to miss the point : a world of glittering dreams that must remain entirely beyond our grasp is precisely what many people want to see .
But there is another , darker side to this craving , which is the wish to see idols dragged through the mud in vicious gossip magazines , divorce courts , and so on .
This is the vengeful side of our fawning , as though the humiliation of worshipping idols must be balanced by our delight in their downfall .
Indeed , to subject people who are born into royal families , or people who marry into them , to lives in a fishbowl , where they are on constant display , like actors and actresses in a continuous soap opera , where human relations are distorted and stunted by absurd rules of protocol , is a terrible form of cruelty .
The current Japanese empress and her daughter @-@ in @-@ law , both from non @-@ aristocratic families , have had nervous breakdowns as a result .
Likewise , movie stars often fall victim to alcohol , drugs , and breakdowns , but at least they have chosen the lives they live .
Kings and queens , on the whole , have not .
Prince Charles might have been far happier as a gardener , but this was never an option .
One thing to be said for monarchs is that they provide people with a sense of continuity , which can be useful in times of crisis or radical change .
The King of Spain provided stability and continuity after the end of Franco &apos;s dictatorship .
During World War II , European monarchs kept a sense of hope and unity alive among their subjects under Nazi occupation .
But there is something else , too .
Monarchies are often popular with minorities .
Jews were among the most loyal subjects of the Austro @-@ Hungarian Emperor .
Franz Joseph I stood up for his Jewish subjects when they were threatened by German anti @-@ Semites .
To him , Jews , Germans , Czechs , or Hungarians were all his subjects , wherever they lived , from the smallest Galician shtetl to the grand capitals of Budapest or Vienna .
This offered some protection to minorities at a time of rising ethnic nationalism .
In this sense , monarchy is a little like Islam , or the Catholic Church : all believers are supposed to be equal in the eyes of God , or the Pope , or the Emperor - hence the appeal to the poor and the marginalized .
This might explain some right @-@ wing populists &quot; animus against monarchy .
The Dutch populist leader Geert Wilders , for example , has denounced Queen Beatrix on several occasions as a leftist , elitist , and multiculturalist .
Like the new wave of populists worldwide , Wilders promises to take his country back for his followers , to stop immigration ( especially of Muslims ) , and to make the Netherlands Dutch again , whatever that means .
Beatrix , like Franz Joseph , refuses to make ethnic or religious distinctions between her subjects .
That is what she means when she preaches tolerance and mutual understanding .
To Wilders and his supporters , this is a sign of her molly @-@ coddling of aliens , of appeasing Muslims .
To them , the queen seems almost anti @-@ Dutch .
To be sure , like all European royal families , the origins of the Dutch royal family are decidedly mixed .
The emergence of kings and queens as specifically national figureheads is a relatively recent historical development .
Empires contained many nations , after all .
Queen Victoria , mostly of German blood , did not regard herself as a monarch of Britons alone , but of Indians , Malays , and many other peoples , too .
This aristocratic tradition of standing above the narrow strains of ethnic nationalism may be the best argument to hang on to royalty a little longer .
Now that many European nations have become increasingly mixed in terms of ethnicity and culture , the only way forward is to learn to live together .
If monarchs can teach their subjects to do so , then let us give at least one cheer for the remaining kings and queens .
Alpine Schadenfreude
Not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year &apos;s World Economic Forum was grim .
Those who think that globalization , technology , and the market economy will solve the world &apos;s problems seemed subdued .
Most chastened of all were the bankers .
Against the backdrop of the sub @-@ prime crisis , the disasters at many financial institutions , and the weakening of the stock market , these &quot; masters of the universe &quot; seemed less omniscient than they did a short while ago .
And it was not just the bankers who were in the Davos doghouse this year , but also their regulators - the central bankers .
Anyone who goes to international conferences is used to hearing Americans lecture everyone else about transparency .
There was still some of that at Davos .
I heard the usual suspects - including a former treasury secretary who had been particularly vociferous in such admonishments during the East Asia crisis - bang on about the need for transparency at sovereign wealth funds ( though not at American or European hedge funds ) .
But this time , developing countries could not resist commenting on the hypocrisy of it all . There was even a touch of schadenfreude in the air about the problems the United States is having right now - though it was moderated , of course , by worries about the downturn &apos;s impact on their own economies .
Had America really told others to bring in American banks to teach them about how to run their business ?
Had America really boasted about its superior risk management systems , going so far as to develop a new regulatory system ( called Basle II ) ?
Basle II is dead - at least until memories of the current disaster fade .
Bankers - and the rating agencies - believed in financial alchemy .
They thought that financial innovations could somehow turn bad mortgages into good securities , meriting AAA ratings .
But one lesson of modern finance theory is that , in well functioning financial markets , repackaging risks should not make much difference .
If we know the price of cream and the price of skim milk , we can figure out the price of milk with 1 % cream , 2 % cream , or 4 % cream .
There might be some money in repackaging , but not the billions that banks made by slicing and dicing sub @-@ prime mortgages into packages whose value was much greater than their contents .
It seemed too good to be true - and it was .
Worse , banks failed to understand the first principle of risk management : diversification only works when risks are not correlated , and macro @-@ shocks ( such as those that affect housing prices or borrowers &quot; ability to repay ) affect the probability of default for all mortgages .
I argued at Davos that central bankers also got it wrong by misjudging the threat of a downturn and failing to provide sufficient regulation .
They waited too long to take action .
Because it normally takes a year or more for the full effects of monetary policy to be felt , central banks need to act preemptively , not reactively .
Worse , the US Federal Reserve and its previous chairman , Alan Greenspan , may have helped create the problem , encouraging households to take on risky variable @-@ rate mortgages by reassuring those who worried about a housing bubble that there was at most a little &quot; froth &quot; in the market .
Normally , a Davos audience would rally to the support of the central bankers .
This time , a vote at the end of the session supported my view by a margin of three to one .
Even the plea of one of central banker that &quot; no one could have predicted the problems &quot; moved few in the audience - perhaps because several people sitting there had , like me , explicitly warned about the impending problem in previous years .
The only thing we got wrong was how bad banks &quot; lending practices were , how non @-@ transparent banks really were , and how inadequate their risk management systems were .
It was interesting to see the different cultural attitudes to the crisis on display .
In Japan , the CEO of a major bank would have apologized to his employees and his country , and would have refused his pension and bonus so that those who suffered as a result of corporate failures could share the money .
He would have resigned .
In America , the only questions are whether a board will force a CEO to leave and , if so , how big his severance package will be .
When I asked one CEO whether there was any discussion of returning their bonuses , the response was not just no , but an aggressive defense of the bonus system .
This is the third US crisis in the past 20 years , after the Savings &amp; amp ; Loan crisis of 1989 and the Enron / WorldCom crisis in 2002 .
Deregulation has not worked .
Unfettered markets may produce big bonuses for CEO &apos;s , but they do not lead , as if by an invisible hand , to societal well @-@ being .
Until we achieve a better balance between markets and government , the world will continue to pay a high price .
Alternatives to Alternative Energy
VIRGINIA BEACH - The problem of long @-@ term energy sources has been drifting towards crisis for decades .
Indeed , the catastrophes in Japan might finally achieve what decades of conflict in the Middle East have not : compel governments to invest in the research required to develop viable energy alternatives .
The immediate political response to the Japanese disaster will be to make small re @-@ adjustments among known energy sources , including wind and solar .
But the current options that many governments wish to embrace will not do the job .
Production of the materials used to capture and store solar electricity , for example , can cause just as much environmental damage as conventional fuels , and existing wind and solar technology cannot easily meet the needs of large populations .
Of course , fossil fuels , mainly coal and natural gas , remain important , but their extraction and use is tied to groundwater pollution and carbon @-@ dioxide emissions , especially in North America and China .
The tragedy in Japan reminds us that , though nuclear energy emits no CO2 , it is toxic in other ways .
If there was ever a time for a massive investment in research into long @-@ term energy sources , that time is now .
We need something on the scale of the Manhattan Project ( which created the atomic bomb ) , or the Apollo Program ( which put a man on the moon ) .
Both initiatives succeeded in a short period of time and at a relatively low price .
In current dollars , each cost about $ 200 billion - a mere fraction of what the United States has paid for the Iraq war , and less than the cost implied by the rise in oil prices over the past year .
Both the Apollo Program and the Manhattan Project had unique characteristics .
Each marshaled the sharpest minds from a range of countries to address one task .
Tolerance for failure was slim in both initiatives , so they tended to rely on the previous generation of scientific insight , because the resulting technology was more trustworthy .
Neither entailed a great scientific challenge , but rather a vast engineering problem .
Although invention was required , existing scientific methods were used .
Unfortunately , governments now focus only on one aspect of this investment format , in which technology that is almost ready is funded .
But this results in endless efforts to make non @-@ ideal methods less troublesome .
We need a game changer , like the integrated circuit , radio , or electricity .
Such a paradigm shift requires an Apollo @-@ scale investment , but in basic science .
There are several examples of the kind of phenomena that , with the benefit of new insight , could lead to unexpected energy sources .
Quite apart from daily sunlight , for instance , Earth is bombarded by all sorts of other radiation from outside our solar system .
Some of this we understand , but most of the material in the universe , and the forces associated with it , are not well explained .
There is most likely an exploitable galactic source of energy that is constant , unlimited , and in our sky right now .
Without basic research to help us understand these forces , their potential will elude us .
An even more mysterious effect occurs on Earth with living creatures .
According to general laws of physics , everything tends to disorder - a process known as entropy . Less well understood is why some agents do the opposite , tending toward order and structure .
Plants , for example , interact with their environment to produce locally ordered systems , resulting in the creation of wood ( and other biomass ) .
When we burn wood , we reverse the process , unraveling that order and producing energy .
At this simple level , we understand how nature works .
But in more complex cases , in which living beings collaborate to build societies or create knowledge , our scientific models are inadequate .
This has prompted some scientists to begin investigating new models of energy from the perspective of &quot; intelligence and information , &quot; in which order is equivalent to information .
With such a fresh perspective on matter , new potentials could emerge .
For example , consider methane clathrate , an ice @-@ like stone that in most cases is built in an ordered way by a complex collaboration of microbes .
Global deposits of methane clathrate contain more than twice the amount of energy of all known fossil fuels , and it can burn cleanly .
If not burned in a controlled way , the release of raw clathrates into the atmosphere would represent a global climate threat , and past massive releases have been catastrophic .
But a better understanding of biological &quot; information flow &quot; could help us use methane clathrate in ways that could actually counter global warming .
Solutions such as these are not explored , however , because they are not within obviously immediate reach , as the atomic bomb and the lunar landing were .
So , perhaps a radically new approach to research is also needed .
Given humanity &apos;s common interest in new energy sources , it seems that the world &apos;s brightest scientific minds should collaborate to identify them .
Such a project would flourish in a scientific establishment that is maturing , rather than frozen in its methods .
Whereas Japan , the US , and Europe are competent at research into what is almost known , the cutting @-@ edge science is more likely to emerge in an economy hungry for resources and infrastructure , such as China .
Rather than a single laboratory , such a program could be a distributed virtual enterprise , taking advantage of the sort of innovative industrial collaboration in which China currently excels .
We need fundamental breakthroughs in alternative energy sources , and soon .
Getting them will probably require a large , collaborative effort focused on theoretical science . Changing our approach to research in this way might seem more difficult than using what we already have .
But , as with our natural resources , we are running out of options .
Alternatives to Austerity
NEW YORK - In the aftermath of the Great Recession , countries have been left with unprecedented peacetime deficits and increasing anxieties about their growing national debts .
In many countries , this is leading to a new round of austerity - policies that will almost surely lead to weaker national and global economies and a marked slowdown in the pace of recovery .
Those hoping for large deficit reductions will be sorely disappointed , as the economic slowdown will push down tax revenues and increase demands for unemployment insurance and other social benefits .
The attempt to restrain the growth of debt does serve to concentrate the mind - it forces countries to focus on priorities and assess values .
The United States is unlikely in the short term to embrace massive budget cuts , à la the United Kingdom .
But the long @-@ term prognosis - made especially dire by health @-@ care reform &apos;s inability to make much of a dent in rising medical costs - is sufficiently bleak that there is increasing bipartisan momentum to do something .
President Barack Obama has appointed a bipartisan deficit @-@ reduction commission , whose chairmen recently provided a glimpse of what their report might look like .
Technically , reducing a deficit is a straightforward matter : one must either cut expenditures or raise taxes .
It is already clear , however , that the deficit @-@ reduction agenda , at least in the US , goes further : it is an attempt to weaken social protections , reduce the progressivity of the tax system , and shrink the role and size of government - all while leaving established interests , like the military @-@ industrial complex , as little affected as possible .
In the US ( and some other advanced industrial countries ) , any deficit @-@ reduction agenda has to be set in the context of what happened over the last decade :
· &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; a massive increase in defense expenditures , fueled by two fruitless wars , but going well beyond that ;
· &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; growth in inequality , with the top 1 % garnering more than 20 % of the country &apos;s income , accompanied by a weakening of the middle class - median US household income has fallen by more than 5 % over the past decade , and was in decline even before the recession ;
· &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; underinvestment in the public sector , including in infrastructure , evidenced so dramatically by the collapse of New Orleans &quot; levies ; and
· &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; growth in corporate welfare , from bank bailouts to ethanol subsidies to a continuation of agricultural subsidies , even when those subsidies have been ruled illegal by the World Trade Organization .
As a result , it is relatively easy to formulate a deficit @-@ reduction package that boosts efficiency , bolsters growth , and reduces inequality .
Five core ingredients are required .
First , spending on high @-@ return public investments should be increased .
Even if this widens the deficit in the short run , it will reduce the national debt in the long run .
What business wouldn &apos;t jump at investment opportunities yielding returns in excess of 10 % if it could borrow capital - as the US government can - for less than 3 % interest ?
Second , military expenditures must be cut - not just funding for the fruitless wars , but also for the weapons that don &apos;t work against enemies that don &apos;t exist .
We &apos;ve continued as if the Cold War never came to an end , spending as much on defense as the rest of the world combined .
Following this is the need to eliminate corporate welfare .
Even as America has stripped away its safety net for people , it has strengthened the safety net for firms , evidenced so clearly in the Great Recession with the bailouts of AIG , Goldman Sachs , and other banks .
Corporate welfare accounts for nearly one @-@ half of total income in some parts of US agro @-@ business , with billions of dollars in cotton subsidies , for example , going to a few rich farmers - while lowering prices and increasing poverty among competitors in the developing world .
An especially egregious form of corporate special treatment is that afforded to the drug companies .
Even though the government is the largest buyer of their products , it is not allowed to negotiate prices , thereby fueling an estimated increase in corporate revenues - and costs to the government - approaching $ 1 trillion dollars over a decade .
Another example is the smorgasbord of special benefits provided to the energy sector , especially oil and gas , thereby simultaneously robbing the treasury , distorting resource allocation , and destroying the environment .
Then there are the seemingly endless giveaways of national resources - from the free spectrum provided to broadcasters to the low royalties levied on mining companies to the subsidies to lumber companies .
Creating a fairer and more efficient tax system , by eliminating the special treatment of capital gains and dividends , is also needed .
Why should those who work for a living be subject to higher tax rates than those who reap their livelihood from speculation ( often at the expense of others ) ?
Finally , with more than 20 % of all income going to the top 1 % , a slight increase , say 5 % , in taxes actually paid would bring in &amp; nbsp ; more than $ 1 trillion over the course of a decade .
A deficit @-@ reduction package crafted along these lines would more than meet even the most ardent deficit hawk &apos;s demands .
It would increase efficiency , promote growth , improve the environment , and benefit workers and the middle class .
There &apos;s only one problem : it wouldn &apos;t benefit those at the top , or the corporate and other special interests that have come to dominate America &apos;s policymaking .
Its compelling logic is precisely why there is little chance that such a reasonable proposal would ever be adopted .
Testing Times for Alzheimer &apos;s
LONDON - Alzheimer &apos;s disease is by far the most common cause of dementia and one of the world &apos;s most feared disorders .
By 2050 , there will be 135 million Alzheimer &apos;s sufferers worldwide , a threefold increase from today , with three @-@ quarters of cases occurring in low- and middle @-@ income countries .
Predicting the onset of Alzheimer &apos;s , let alone preventing or curing it , remains an immense challenge .
Alzheimer &apos;s disease was identified more than a century ago from autopsy results that showed characteristic brain lesions called &quot; amyloid plaques . &quot;
The disease is more difficult to diagnose in the living .
Doctors rely on observation of memory loss and other thinking deficits ( such as reasoning or language comprehension ) - signs that plaques are already present in the brain .
But any cure &amp; nbsp ; would have to be administered before the plaques form , and years before symptoms of dementia appear .
Alzheimer &apos;s might be more predictable if scientists had the time and resources to conduct far @-@ reaching longitudinal studies over many years .
Such studies ideally would involve blood , imaging , memory , and medical tests , as well as detailed lifestyle questionnaires filled out by thousands of young and middle @-@ aged people .
Study participants would be followed over decades to see who developed the disease , and which tests proved positive before Alzheimer &apos;s was diagnosed .
In fact , two famous longitudinal studies - the Framingham Heart Study in Massachusetts and the Kungsholmen Project in Sweden - have led to important progress in predicting the disease . These studies found that short @-@ term memory may be impaired for up to ten years before an Alzheimer &apos;s diagnosis .
Major advances have since been made in brain imaging , biochemical analysis , and , perhaps most important , genetic testing .
Indeed , the risk of Alzheimer &apos;s doubles if a parent or sibling has it , probably due in large part to the presence of the ApoE gene .
The risk triples for Europeans who inherit a particular type of ApoE , called ε4 ; inheriting two copies of ε4 increases the risk roughly tenfold .
But genetic testing alone is unlikely to be an accurate predictor , because around half of Alzheimer &apos;s sufferers do not carry ε4 , and probably half of those with ε4 do not develop the disease .
Moreover , though international studies of more than 70,000 people have found over 20 other genes linked to Alzheimer &apos;s , their impact is minimal .
That said , a &amp; nbsp ; groundbreaking 2012 study &amp; nbsp ; published in the &amp; nbsp ; New England Journal of Medicine , analyzed a rare genetic mutation found in just 500 families around the world , which would lead to Alzheimer &apos;s before the age of 50 .
The study showed which tests were able to predict the outcome most accurately decades ahead of onset .
The research found that amyloid @-@ beta - the substance that clumps together and forms amyloid plaques - becomes depleted in the cerebrospinal fluid around the brain as long as 25 years before the onset of dementia .
Fifteen years prior to onset , a positron emission tomography ( PET ) scan showed amyloid @-@ beta being deposited in plaques in the brain itself .
And detailed short @-@ term memory tests were abnormal ten years before onset , as suggested in the Framingham and Kungsholmen studies .
These tests are now becoming part of clinical practice , and are available commercially .
Memory and other cognitive tests can reveal whether one has minor problems with some aspects of thinking - a condition known as &quot; mild cognitive impairment &quot; that precedes Alzheimer &apos;s disease .
The problem is that the tests must be administered by a trained neuropsychologist and take more than an hour to complete ; moreover , many people with mild cognitive impairment do not progress to dementia .
Sampling cerebrospinal fluid via a lumbar puncture ( or &quot; spinal tap &quot; ) can predict which people with mild cognitive impairment will progress to dementia with over 80 % accuracy , but this still means a misdiagnosis for one in five patients .
PET scans are slightly less accurate , while routine MRI brain scans can reveal with perhaps only 70 % accuracy subtle abnormalities in people with mild cognitive impairment .
Scientists are therefore still searching for an accurate predictive test that is cheaper , quicker , and less invasive than PET scans or lumbar punctures .
This year , two small studies of blood tests seemed to predict Alzheimer &apos;s 1 @-@ 3 years before it occurred , but the tests are complicated and require the measurement of ten or more substances .
Whichever predictive methods doctors use over the next few years will probably enable them to inform those patients with mild cognitive impairment about their chances of developing Alzheimer &apos;s in the short term .
The trickier question is whether we will be able to predict Alzheimer &apos;s disease accurately in those with normal cognition and memory , or to predict it more than five years in advance .
Even if accurate early prediction of Alzheimer &apos;s eventually is achieved , there are currently no drugs available to prevent or cure it before the amyloid plaques start destroying the mind .
That will be our next great challenge .
Ambivalent Arabia
A democratic tide seems to be sweeping across the Arab world .
Even the traditional Arab monarchies and Emirates are changing in its wake .
Kuwait now allows women to vote , Qatar has embraced an ambitious reform program , Bahrain has shown great tolerance of mass demonstrations , and the U.A.E. is allowing something like a free press .
But Saudi Arabia continues to be deeply wary of any sort of change , and thus remains a huge and seemingly immovable obstacle to region @-@ wide reform .
Although the Saudi ruling family , the al @-@ Saud , is under enormous pressure to follow the example of its neighbors , internal resistance to doing so remains very strong .
So the al @-@ Saud have become Janus @-@ faced : looking in one direction , the royal family encourages democratic reformers to speak out ; looking in the opposite direction , it jails them when they do .
On May 15 , in a closed trial without legal representation for the accused , three leading reformers - Ali Al Dumaini , a well @-@ known journalist and poet , and university professors Abdullah Al Hamid and Matruk al Falih - were condemned and sentenced to prison terms ranging from six to nine years .
Their crime was to call for a constitutional monarchy .
The official verdict states that they threatened national unity , challenged those in authority , and incited public opinion against the state while using &quot; foreign , &quot; that is , Western , terminology .
Not long after the September 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States , these liberal reformers joined with 160 other professionals to write and sign a petition to Crown Prince Abdullah asking for reforms .
The petition called for the monarchy to work within constitutionally prescribed limits , and for an independent judiciary .
The reformers believe that such reforms are the only way for Saudi Arabia to survive the threat of violence , instability , and national fragmentation that is looming on its horizon .
Only a constitution , they argue , can restore much needed legitimacy to a political system that is widely perceived as deeply corrupt and inept .
Crown Prince Abdullah , Saudi Arabia &apos;s de facto ruler in place of his incapacitated half @-@ brother King Fahd , is keen to be seen as a champion of reform .
He received these proposals with a warm welcome in January 2003 .
But his half @-@ brother and more powerful rival , Prince Naif , the Minister of Interior , ordered the arrests , trial , and imprisonment of 13 reformers in March 2004 .
Crown Prince Abdullah offered not a peep of opposition , leaving the reform agenda that he initiated in a political netherworld .
In order to maintain absolutist power and to minimize public anger , the Saudi princes , led by Prince Naif , asked the reformers to sign an agreement that they would never again ask for reform .
Prince Naif bans the very word &quot; reform &quot; from public discourse , because it suggests that there is something wrong with the system ; his preferred term is &quot; development . &quot;
Of the thirteen reformers who were arrested , ten submitted to this demand , but the other three refused and have paid the price .
They remained in jail in Riyadh without legal representation until the final verdict .
Those who submitted had their passports withdrawn , lost their jobs , and were forbidden to speak to the press .
Under regional and international pressure , the Saudi ruling family has constructed a Potemkin village of reform while retaining absolute control over all political developments .
Earlier this year , they staged partial , and tightly regulated municipal elections , with no independent opinion permitted to influence when and how the ballots were held .
These entire female population was excluded , and only one @-@ quarter of the male population was eligible to vote .
Inevitably , Wahhabi Islamists did best .
The al @-@ Saud face two threats : one from violent Islamists , and the other from liberal reformers .
There is every indication that they fear the reformers far more .
Perhaps the princes believe that it is easier to kill &quot; terrorist &quot; criminals than to crush demands for social justice .
Indeed , killing violent Islamists and al @-@ Qaeda affiliates is applauded by the international community , especially the United States , as success in the &quot; war on terrorism . &quot;
But as they hunt down and kill violent domestic extremists , they are quietly tightening the noose around all those who want moderate reform .
This repression of liberal reformers passes unnoticed in the wider world , with America &apos;s silence particularly noticeable .
This silence is vital to the princes , for what the al @-@ Saud care about most is US support .
As things stand in Saudi Arabia , the US administration has no credible ally for change outside of the existing regime .
So , unlike in Ukraine , Georgia , Kyrgizstan , and Lebanon , it does nothing to encourage popular opposition .
As long as the Saudi regime meets America &apos;s oil needs and fights Islamist radicals , it will continue to receive US support and silence - and hence its tacit consent .
But turning a blind eye is shortsighted , for America and for the Saudis .
Those who make peaceful revolutions impossible make violent revolutions inevitable .
The liberal reformers who have been jailed could have paved the way for a peaceful transition to a reformed Saudi Arabia .
By jailing them , the regime has made it clear that violence is the only avenue open to those seeking change .
America and Europe Divided Over Saddam
Talk is growing of a change in US defense doctrine to allow for pre @-@ emptive strikes on states that harbor weapons of mass destruction .
That talk is sending shudders across Europe , where many people connect it with America &apos;s oft @-@ stated desire to remove Saddam Hussein from power in Iraq .
Ever since the Gulf war , Iraq has been a source of friction among the western permanent members of the UN Security Council .
By the end of 1999 , divergence was complete : the United States and Britain were employing their air power to enforce the no @-@ fly zones while France joined Russia and China in abstaining on resolution 1284 .
As this UK @-@ sponsored resolution was meant to bring the Iraq issue back to the Security Council after the withdrawal of the UN weapons inspectors and subsequent American air strikes of December 1998 , hope for progress on Iraq within the Security Council was scant .
This rapidly changed after last September 11 th .
On May 14 , 2002 , the Security Council gave the tottering sanctions regime a new lease on life by unanimously adopting a simplified screening procedure .
Even Iraq showed signs of being prepared to consider a possible return of the UN weapons inspectors .
At first sight this seems to bode well for the transatlantic relationship .
In reality , the current relaxation is more likely a lull before the storm .
Most Europeans take it for granted that the US will attack Iraq , and that this act of unilateralism , coming in the wake of all the other irritants such as the ABM Treaty , the Kyoto Agreement , the steel tariffs and the International Criminal Court , will have a devastating effect on transatlantic relations .
Europe would be ill @-@ advised to become mesmerized by this approaching disaster .
Everyone understands that the Iraqi government &apos;s improved attitude is caused by the Bush administration &apos;s sabre @-@ rattling , but no one can tell whether this is a prelude to an inevitable war or a stratagem to make Iraq cooperate with UN weapons inspectors .
Obviously , the US cannot remove this uncertainty without robbing the sabre @-@ rattling of its beneficial effect .
Given this ambiguity , there remains time for Europe to engage the US in a serious discussion of the options for dealing with Saddam .
The common aim should be to remove the threat posed by a dictator with so well @-@ documented a predilection for weapons of mass destruction .
The options vary from resumed inspections to &apos; regime change &apos; .
There are arguments which make the choice far less clear @-@ cut than it may seem .
Several of these are also being advanced within the Bush administration .
Europe can constructively participate in such discussion provided it first clears the way by :
1. ridding itself of its constant
2. showing some understanding for the view of some in the Bush administration that the US should not be bogged down by a continent that is soft , decadent and moralizing .
This is not a pleasant way of putting it , but many Americans remember how on two occasions in the former Yugoslavia - a pre @-@ eminently European theatre - Europe was helpless until American warplanes showed up ;
3. making clear that Europe and the US are
This debate about how to deal with Saddam might go as follows .
It is not difficult to overthrow Saddam , but it is impossible to predict who or what will take his place .
Iraq may even disintegrate , leaving us with a much stronger Iran , also a member of the
Moreover , Saddam may already possess a weapon of mass destruction but has been deterred from using it .
Once he is attacked by the US , he may use it against Israel , which will retaliate .
So it may well be wiser to induce Iraq to readmit the UN weapons inspectors and make sure they can do their job .
This will not entirely remove the Iraqi threat but will make it controllable .
Should this be the outcome , European governments would breathe a sigh of relief .
But the debate may also go the other way .
Saddam will cooperate with UN inspectors only as long as the American threat remains , and the US may conclude that it cannot afford that .
If President Bush then opts for regime change , Europe should not opt out .
This is easier said than done .
Many Europeans will argue that they cannot condone military action without a Security Council mandate .
But they already did , twice .
They condoned or even supported American air strikes against Baghdad in December 1998 , and they supported or even participated in NATO &apos;s air strikes against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in March 1999 .
True , some will say , but that was under the Clinton administration .
If Europe conveys the impression that its friendship with America depends on who wins the US presidential elections , it is likely to freeze the transatlantic relationship for years .
That hardly seems a rational policy for a continent in profound transition .
America and Global Public Goods
America is currently transfixed with the problem it has created for itself in Iraq , but the presidential candidates are also beginning to ask what principles should guide United States foreign policy after Iraq .
In my view , a focus on global public goods - things everyone can consume without diminishing their availability to others - could help America reconcile its preponderant power with others &quot; interests .
Of course , pure public goods are rare .
Most only partially approach the ideal case of clean air , where none can be excluded and all can benefit simultaneously .
Combating global climate change is probably the most dramatic current case .
If the largest beneficiary of a public good ( like the US ) does not take the lead in devoting disproportionate resources toward its provision , smaller beneficiaries are unlikely to be able to produce it because of the difficulties of organizing collective action when large numbers are involved .
While this responsibility often lets others become &quot; free riders , &quot; the alternative is no ride for anyone .
The US could gain doubly , both from the public goods themselves , and from the way they legitimize its preponderant power in the eyes of others .
America can learn from the lesson the nineteenth century , when Great Britain was a preponderant power and took the lead in maintaining the balance of power between Europe &apos;s major states , promoting an open international economic system , and maintaining freedom of the seas .
These issues remain relevant today , and the establishment of rules that preserve access for all remains as much a public good now as it was then , even though some of the issues are more complex .
Maintaining regional balances of power and dampening local incentives to use force to change borders provides a public good for many ( but not all ) countries .
Similarly , maintaining open global markets is a necessary ( though not sufficient ) condition for alleviating poverty in poor countries even as it benefits the US .
Today , however , global public goods include new issues - not only climate change , but also preservation of endangered species , outer space , and the &quot; virtual commons &quot; of cyberspace .
A reasonable consensus in American public opinion supports ensuring both these and the &quot; classic &quot; global public goods , even if the US has failed to lead on some issues , notably global climate .
There are also three new dimensions of global public goods in today &apos;s world .
First , the US should take the lead in helping to develop and maintain international laws and institutions to organize collective action to deal with not only trade and the environment , but also weapons proliferation , peacekeeping , human rights , and other concerns .
Others benefit from the order that such efforts provide , but so does the US .
Likewise , while unilateralists complain that the US is constrained by international regimes , so are others .
Second , the US should make international development a higher priority .
Much of the poor majority of the world is mired in a vicious circle of disease , poverty , and political instability .
Financial and scientific help from rich countries is important not only for humanitarian reasons , but also to prevent failed states from becoming sources of disorder for the rest of the world .
Here , too , America &apos;s record is less than impressive .
Protectionist trade measures often hurt poor countries most , and foreign assistance is generally unpopular with the American public .
Development will take a long time , and the international community needs to explore better ways to make sure that help actually reaches the poor , but both prudence and a concern for soft power suggest that the US should take the lead .
Finally , as a preponderant power , the US can provide an important public good by acting as a mediator and convener .
By using its good offices to mediate conflicts in places like Northern Ireland , Morocco , and the Aegean Sea , the US has helped in shaping international order in ways that are beneficial to other nations .
The Middle East is the crucial current case .
It is sometimes tempting to let intractable conflicts fester , and there are some situations where other countries can play the mediator &apos;s role more effectively .
Even when the US does not want to take the lead , it can share leadership with others , such as with Europe in the Balkans .
But often the US is the only country that can bring parties together .
When successful , such leadership increases American soft power while reducing sources of instability .
The US can also encourage other countries to share in production of such public goods .
Welcoming the rise of Chinese power in terms of that country &apos;s becoming a &quot; responsible stakeholder &quot; is an invitation to begin such a dialogue .
Nevertheless , the US is likely to remain the world &apos;s preponderant power even after it extricates itself from Iraq .
But it will have to learn to work with other countries to share leadership .
That will require combining the soft power of attraction with the hard power of military might to produce a &quot; smart power &quot; strategy for providing global public goods .
America at Stall Speed ?
NEWPORT BEACH - Judging from the skittishness of both markets and &quot; consensus expectations , &quot; the United States &quot; economic prospects are confusing .
One day , the country is on the brink of a double @-@ dip recession ; the next , it is on the verge of a turbo @-@ charged recovery , powered by resilient consumers and US multinationals starting to deploy , at long last , their massive cash reserves .
In the process , markets take investors on a wild rollercoaster ride , with the European crisis ( riddled with even more confusion and volatility ) serving to aggravate their queasiness .
This situation is both understandable and increasingly unsettling for America &apos;s well @-@ being and that of the global economy .
It reflects the impact of fundamental ( and historic ) economic and financial re @-@ alignments , insufficient policy responses , and system @-@ wide rigidities that frustrate structural change .
As a result , there are now legitimate questions about the underlying functioning of the US economy and , therefore , its evolution in the months and years ahead .
One way to understand current conditions - and what is needed to improve them - is to consider two events that recently attracted considerable worldwide attention : the launch of Boeing &apos;s Dreamliner passenger jet and the tragic death of Apple &apos;s Steve Jobs .
Let us start with some simple aeronautic dynamics , using an analogy that my PIMCO colleague , Bill Gross , came up with to describe the economic risks facing the American economy .
For the Dreamliner to take off , ascend , and maintain a steady altitude , it must do more than move forward .
It has to move forward fast enough to exceed critical physical thresholds , which are significantly higher than those for most of Boeing &apos;s other ( smaller ) planes .
Failure would mean succumbing to a mid @-@ air stall , with tepid forward motion giving way to a sudden loss of altitude .
Unless we are convinced of the Dreamliner &apos;s ability to avoid stall speed , it makes no sense to talk about all the ways in which it will enhance the travel experience for millions of people around the world .
America &apos;s economy today risks stall speed .
Specifically , the question is not whether it can grow , but whether it can grow fast enough to propel a large economy that , according to the US Federal Reserve , faces &quot; balance @-@ sheet deleveraging , credit constraints , and household and business uncertainty about the economic outlook . &quot;
And , remember , it is just over a year since certain US officials were proclaiming the economy &apos;s &quot; summer of recovery &quot; - a view underpinned by the erroneous belief that America was reaching &quot; escape velocity . &quot;
Stall speed is a terrifying risk for an economy like that of the US , which desperately needs to grow robustly .
Without rapid growth , there is no way to reverse persistently high and increasingly structural ( and therefore protracted ) unemployment ; safely de @-@ leverage over @-@ indebted balance sheets ; and prevent already @-@ disturbing income and wealth inequalities from growing worse .
The private sector alone cannot and will not counter the risk of stall speed .
What is desperately needed is better policymaking .
Specifically , policymakers must be open and willing to understand the unusual challenges facing the US economy , react accordingly , and possess sufficiently potent policy instruments .
Unfortunately , this has been far from the case in America ( and in Europe , where the situation is worse ) .
Moreover , US policymakers in the last few weeks have been more interested in pointing fingers at Europe and China than in recognizing and responding to the paradigm shifts that are at the root of the country &apos;s economic problems and mounting social challenges .
This is where the insights of Steve Jobs , one of the world &apos;s best innovators and entrepreneurs , come in .
Jobs did more than navigate paradigm shifts ; he essentially created them .
He was a master at converting the complicated into the simple ; and , rather than being paralyzed by complexity , he found new ways to deconstruct and overcome it .
Teamwork was an obligation , not a choice .
And he eschewed the search for the single &quot; big bang &quot; in favor of aiming for multiple breakthroughs .
Underlying it all was a willingness to evolve - a drive for perfection through experimentation .
Moreover , he excelled at selling to audiences worldwide both his vision and his strategy for realizing it .
So far , America &apos;s economic policymakers have fallen short on all of these fronts .
Rather than committing to a comprehensive set of urgently @-@ needed reinforcing measures , they seem obsessed with the futile search for the one &quot; killer app &quot; that will solve all of the country &apos;s economic problems .
No surprise that they have yet to find it .
Teamwork has repeatedly fallen hostage to turf wars and political bickering .
Little has been done to deconstruct structural complexity , let alone win sufficient public support for a medium @-@ term vision , a credible implementation strategy , and a set of measures that is adequate to the task at hand .
The longer the policymaking impasse persists , the greater the stall @-@ speed risk for an economy that already has an unemployment crisis , a large budget deficit , many underwater mortgages , and policy interest rates floored at zero .
This is an atmosphere in which unhealthy balance sheets come under even greater pressure , and healthy investors refuse to engage .
In the process , the risk of recession remains uncomfortably high , the unemployment crisis deepens , and inequities rise as already @-@ stretched social safety nets prove even more porous .
America , China , and the Productivity Paradox
NEW HAVEN - In the late 1980s , there was intense debate about the so @-@ called productivity paradox - when massive investments in information technology ( IT ) were not delivering measureable productivity improvements .
That paradox is now back , posing a problem for both the United States and China - one that may well come up in their annual Strategic and Economic Dialogue .
Back in 1987 , Nobel laureate Robert Solow famously quipped , &quot; You can see the computer age everywhere except in the productivity statistics . &quot; The productivity paradox seemed to be resolved in the 1990s , when America experienced a spectacular productivity renaissance .
Average annual productivity growth in the country &apos;s nonfarm business sector accelerated to 2.5 % from 1991 to 2007 , from the 1.5 % trend in the preceding 15 years .
The benefits of the Internet Age had finally materialized .
Concern about the paradox all but vanished .
But the celebration appears to have been premature .
Despite another technological revolution , productivity growth is slumping again . And this time the downturn is global in scope , affecting the world &apos;s two largest economies , the US and China , most of all .
Over the past five years , from 2010 to 2014 , annual US productivity growth has fallen to an average of 0.9 % .
It actually fell at a 2.6 % annual rate in the two most recent quarters ( in late 2014 and early 2015 ) .
Barring a major data revision , America &apos;s productivity renaissance seems to have run into serious trouble .
China is witnessing a similar pattern .
Although the government does not publish regular productivity statistics , there is no mistaking the problem : Overall urban employment growth has been steady , at around 13.2 million workers per year since 2013 - well in excess of the government &apos;s targeted growth rate of ten million .
Moreover , hiring seems to be holding at that brisk pace in early 2015 .
At the same time , output growth has slowed from the 10 % trend of the 33 years ending in 2011 to around 7 % today .
That downshift , in the face of sustained rapid job creation , implies an unmistakable deceleration of productivity .
Therein lies the latest paradox .
With revolutionary technologies now driving the creation of new markets ( digital media and computerized wearables ) , services ( energy management and DNA sequencing ) , products ( smartphones and robotics ) , and technology companies ( Alibaba and Apple ) , surely productivity growth must be surging .
As a modern @-@ day Solow might say , the &quot; Internet of Everything &quot; is everywhere except in the productivity statistics .
But is there really a paradox ?
Northwestern University &apos;s Robert Gordon has argued that IT- and Internet @-@ led innovations like automated high @-@ speed data processing and e @-@ commerce pale in comparison to the breakthroughs of the Industrial Revolution , including the steam engine , electricity , and indoor plumbing .
He maintains that , although these innovations led to dramatic transformations of the major advanced economies - such as higher female labor @-@ force participation , increased transportation speed , urbanization , and normalized temperature control - these changes will be extremely hard to replicate .
Indeed , as taken with today &apos;s revolutionary technologies as we are - I say this staring at my sleek new Apple Watch - I am sympathetic to Gordon &apos;s argument .
If US productivity figures are to be taken at anything close to face value - a persistently sluggish trend interrupted by a 16 @-@ year spurt that now appears to have faded - it is possible that all America has accomplished are transitional efficiency improvements associated with the IT @-@ enabled shift from one technology platform to another .
Optimists maintain that the official statistics fail to capture marked quality @-@ of @-@ life improvements , which may be true , especially in the light of promising advances in biotechnology and online education .
But this overlooks a much more important aspect of the productivity @-@ measurement critique : the undercounting of work time associated with the widespread use of portable information appliances .
In the US , the Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates that the length of the average workweek has held steady at about 34 hours since the advent of the Internet two decades ago .
Yet nothing could be further from the truth : knowledge workers continually toil outside the traditional office , checking their email , updating spreadsheets , writing reports , and engaging in collective brainstorming .
Indeed , white @-@ collar knowledge workers - that is , most workers in advanced economies - are now tethered to their workplaces essentially 24 hours a day , seven days a week , a reality that is not reflected in the official statistics .
Productivity growth is not about working longer ; it is about generating more output per unit of labor input .
Any undercounting of output pales in comparison with the IT @-@ assisted undercounting of working hours .
China &apos;s productivity slowdown is probably more benign .
It is an outgrowth of the Chinese economy &apos;s nascent structural transformation from capital @-@ intensive manufacturing to labor @-@ intensive services .
Indeed , it was only in 2013 that services supplanted manufacturing and construction as the economy &apos;s largest sector .
Now the gap is widening , and that is likely to continue .
With Chinese services requiring about 30 % more workers per unit of output than manufacturing and construction , combined , the economy &apos;s structural rebalancing is now shifting growth to China &apos;s lower @-@ productivity services sector .
China has time before this becomes a problem .
As Gordon notes , there have been long @-@ lasting productivity dividends associated with urbanization - a trend that could continue for at least another decade in China .
But there will come a time when this tailwind subsides and China begins to converge on the so @-@ called frontier of the advanced economies .
At that point , China will face the same productivity challenges that confront America and others .
Chinese policymakers &quot; new focus on innovation @-@ led growth seems to recognize this risk .
Without powerful innovations , sustaining productivity growth will be an uphill battle .
China &apos;s recent shift to a slower @-@ productivity trajectory is an early warning of what may well be one of its most daunting economic challenges .
There is no escaping the key role that productivity growth plays in any country &apos;s economic performance .
Yet , for advanced economies , periods of sustained rapid productivity growth have been the exception , not the rule .
Recent signs of slowing productivity growth in both the US and China underscore this reality .
For a world flirting with secular stagnation , that is disturbing news , to say the least .
America Confronts Old and New Europe
US Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld &apos;s petulant remark of last year about &quot; old and new Europe &quot; was right for the wrong reasons .
He meant it to refer to Europe &apos;s divisions , but in May , ten additional states joined the European Union .
The expanded Europe truly forms a new Europe .
Should America be nervous ?
Fifty @-@ four years after the announcement of the Schuman Plan that began to knit together the economies of France and Germany , the EU now has 25 countries and a population larger than that of the United States .
Eight of the new members are former Communist countries that were locked behind the Iron Curtain for nearly half a century .
Their attraction to the Union is a sign of the appeal - the &quot; soft power &quot; - of the idea of European unification .
Of course , this new Europe faces many problems .
The per capita income of the new countries is less than half of that of the fifteen members they are joining .
Concerns have been raised about the influx of cheap labor .
But average GDP growth rates in the new members are twice as high as in the original members , and this can provide a welcome stimulus to stagnant labor markets and sluggish economies .
Political arrangements are somewhat more problematic .
Negotiations are underway to revise a draft EU constitution .
Some Europeans worry that the constitution will enable courts to carry the integration process further and faster than public opinion in member states will tolerate .
Lack of grassroots support might lead to rejection of the constitution in countries like Britain , where referenda have been promised before the new arrangements come into force .
Across the Atlantic , most Americans ( to the extent they pay attention ) regard these changes with general approval .
But some express concern that the new Europe will be defined in opposition to the US .
Not only do the remarks of French leaders about recreating a multi @-@ polar world arouse alarm , but recent public opinion polls show a decline in the popularity of the US among Europeans and a desire for more independent policies .
The Iraq War proved costly to American soft power , with the US losing about 30 percentage points of attractiveness on average in Europe , including in countries like Britain , Spain , and Italy , whose governments supported the war .
The recent photographs of detainees being abused and sexually degraded in Baghdad &apos;s Abu Ghraib prison added fuel to the fire .
Now some American neo @-@ conservatives argue that the US should drop its longstanding support for European integration .
Such a policy change would be a serious mistake .
Not only would it add to anti @-@ American attitudes and fail to accomplish its objectives , but it over @-@ estimates the extent to which the new Europe is being formed in opposition to the US .
Whatever the rhetoric in France , for example , the policies and attitudes in countries such as Britain or Poland demonstrate that good trans @-@ Atlantic relations can be maintained .
If anything , the risks of a US @-@ Europe split will be reduced rather than increased by the EU &apos;s recent enlargement .
Moreover , there are several objective reasons why the current friction between Europe and the US is unlikely to lead to divorce .
For one thing , the divisive war in Iraq may turn out to be the last act of the twentieth century rather than a harbinger of the twenty @-@ first .
American unilateralism is much less in evidence in the world &apos;s other hot spots , such as North Korea and Iran , both because of the costs of the war in Iraq and the realities of the situation in those other regions .
Moreover , while the common security threat from the Soviet Union has disappeared , both the US and Europe face a new common threat from radical
Europe and America also share a common structure of economic interests and values .
While trade produces frictions in democracies , it also enhances wealth .
If one looks at foreign direct investment , it is clear that the two sides of the Atlantic are closely integrated .
In terms of values , while some differences exist between Europe and America , at the fundamental level of democracy and human rights , no other two parts of the globe share more .
As the writer Robert Kagan concluded in the revision of his book in which he declared Europeans to be from Venus and Americans from Mars , it turns out that Americans seeking democratic legitimization of their policies and self @-@ images cannot escape Europe .
In short , it is good for Americans - and for the world - that old and new Europe are becoming one .
We can all benefit from the soft power of an enlarged Europe .
America Embraces Trade Discrimination
NEW YORK - Economists generally agree on the advantages of openness in trade .
But the case for non @-@ discrimination in trade is also a compelling one .
So good trade policy should push for multilateral trade liberalization such as at the Doha Round , rather than preferential trade agreements ( PTAs ) such as free @-@ trade areas ( FTAs ) , and also ensure that any retreat into protectionism does not degenerate into discriminatory trade practices .
The last G @-@ 20 meeting in Canada was a disappointment on the first front .
At the insistence of the United States , an earlier reference by the G @-@ 20 to a definite date for completing the Doha Round was dropped .
Instead , unwittingly rubbing salt into the wound , President Barack Obama announced his administration &apos;s willingness to see the US @-@ South Korea FTA through .
On the second front , there are distressing recent reports that the US Commerce Department is exploring ways to strengthen the bite of anti @-@ dumping actions , which are now generally agreed to be a form of discriminatory protectionism aimed selectively at successful exporting nations and firms .
Equally distressing is Obama &apos;s decision in August 13 to sign a bill , approved in a rare special session of the Senate , that raises visa fees on H1 ( b ) and L @-@ 1 temporary work visas in order to pay for higher border @-@ enforcement expenditures .
This proposal gained its legs from long @-@ standing worries about the H1 ( b ) and L @-@ 1 programs on the part of Republican Senator Chuck Grassley and Democratic Senator Richard Durbin , and had recently attracted the sponsorship of the influential Democratic Senator Charles Schumer of New York . Schumer had long agitated against &quot; outsourcing &quot; as inimical to American economic interests , even allying himself with the supply @-@ side economist Paul Craig Roberts .
But he gained clout with the onset of the current crisis , and concern over intractable unemployment numbers is enabling politicians to justify all sorts of superficially attractive remedies .
Thus , it was asserted that a tax on foreign workers would reduce the numbers coming in and &quot; taking jobs away &quot; from American citizens .
Many supporters of the proposal claimed , incoherently , that it would simultaneously discourage foreign workers from entering the US and increase revenues .
Obama &apos;s surrender exemplified the doctrine that one retreat often leads to another , with new lobbyists following in others &quot; footsteps .
Perhaps the chief mistake , as with recent &quot; Buy American &quot; provisions in US legislation , was to allow the Employ American Workers Act ( EAWA ) to be folded into the stimulus bill .
This makes it harder for companies to get governmental support to hire skilled immigrants with H1 ( b ) visas : they must first show that they have not laid off or plan to lay off American workers in similar occupations .
Whatever the shortcomings of such measures in economic @-@ policy terms , the visa @-@ fee @-@ enhancement provision is de facto discriminatory , and thus violates WTO rules against discrimination between domestic and foreign firms , or between foreign firms from different WTO countries .
While the visa @-@ fee legislation is what lawyers call &quot; facially &quot; non @-@ discriminatory , its design confers an advantage on US firms vis @-@ à @-@ vis foreign firms .
The fee applies to both foreign and US firms that employ at least 50 workers , of which 50 % or more are H1 ( b ) workers .
But US firms have additional access to foreign workers under the immigration laws .
India would be the chief loser relative to US firms , and , with several sizeable firms , such as Infosys and Wipro , adversely affected by the measure , it would also be the chief loser vis @-@ à @-@ vis smaller outsourcing firms from other countries .
The Indian government has lost no time in raising these objections - as well as the prospect of a formal WTO Dispute Settlement Mechanism complaint .
Such acts of discrimination in trade policies find succor in the media and in some of America &apos;s prominent think tanks .
For example , in the wake of the vast misery brought by flooding to the people of Pakistan , the US and other governments have risen to the occasion with emergency aid .
But there have also been proposals to grant duty @-@ free access to Pakistan &apos;s exports .
But this would be discriminatory toward developing countries that do not have duty @-@ free access , helping Pakistan at their expense .
Astonishingly , Nancy Birdsall of the Center for Global Development , who favors such discrimination , even wrote cynically and approvingly that such a policy &quot; would have little impact on US textile producers . &quot; Unfortunately , major US media , including The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal , have endorsed this deplorable assault on whatever non @-@ discrimination remains in the world trading system .
Is it too unrealistic to hope that the Obama administration , which has so far been far too responsive to weak economics and strong politics , will stand up to these demands ?
America Goes from Teacher to Student
Cambridge &amp; # 45 ; &amp; # 45 ; As the United States &quot; epic financial crisis continues to unfold , one can only wish that US policymakers were half as good at listening to advice from developing countries as they are at giving it .
Americans don &apos;t seem to realize that their &quot; sub @-@ prime &quot; mortgage meltdown has all too much in common with many previous post @-@ 1945 banking crises throughout the world .
The silver lining is that there are many highly distinguished current and former policymakers out there , particularly from emerging market countries , who have seen this movie before .
If US policymakers would only listen , they might get an idea or two about how to deal with financial crises from experts who have lived through them and come out safely on the other side .
Unfortunately , the parallel between today &apos;s US crisis and previous financial crises is not mere hyperbole .
The qualitative parallels are obvious : banks using off @-@ balance loans to finance highly risky ventures , exotic new financial instruments , and excessive exuberance over the promise of new markets .
But there are strong quantitative parallels as well .
Professor Carmen Reinhart of the University of Maryland and I systematically compared the run @-@ up to the US sub @-@ prime crisis with the run @-@ up to the 19 worst financial crises in the industrialized world over the past 60 years . These include epic crises in the Scandinavian countries , Spain , and Japan , along with lesser events such as the US savings and loan crises of the 1980 &quot; s .
Across virtually all the major indicators - including equity and housing price runs @-@ ups , trade balance deficits , surges in government and household indebtedness , and pre @-@ crisis growth trajectories - red lights are blinking for the US .
Simply put , surging capital flows into the US artificially held down interest rates and inflated asset prices , leading to laxity in banking and regulatory standards and , ultimately , to a meltdown .
When Asia and Latin America had their financial meltdowns in the 1990 &quot; s and early 2000 &quot; s , they took advice not only from the IMF , but also from a number of small panels composed of eminent people representing diverse backgrounds and experiences .
The US should do the same .
The head of the IMF , Frenchman Dominique Strauss @-@ Kahn , could easily select a superb panel from any range of former crisis countries , including Mexico , Brazil , Korea , Turkey , Japan , and Sweden , not to mention Argentina , Russia , Chile , and many others .
Admittedly , the IMF &apos;s panel would have to look past America &apos;s current hypocrisy .
The US Treasury strongly encouraged Asia to tighten fiscal policy during its 1990 &quot; s crisis .
But today the US Congress and President are tripping over themselves to adopt an ill @-@ advised giant fiscal stimulus package , whose main effects will be to tie the hands of the next president in simplifying the US tax code and closing the budget deficit .
Americans firmly told Japan that the only way to clean up its economy was to purge insolvent banks and regenerate the financial system through Schumpeterian &quot; creative destruction . &quot;
Today , US authorities appear willing to contemplate any measure , no matter how inflationary , to insure that none of its major banks and investment houses fails .
For years , foreign governments complained about American hedge funds , arguing that their non @-@ transparent behavior posed unacceptable risks to stability .
Now , many US politicians are complaining about the transparency of sovereign wealth funds ( big government investors mainly from Asia and the Middle East ) , which are taking shares in trophy American assets such as Citibank and Merrill Lynch .
In fact , having countries like Russia and China more vested in the well @-@ being of the US economy would not be a bad thing .
Yes , the IMF ought to develop a voluntary code of conduct for SWF &apos;s , but it should not be used as a weapon to enforce financial protectionism .
For years , I , along with many others , have complained that emerging markets need greater representation in global financial governance .
Today , the issue goes far beyond symbolism .
The US economy is in trouble , and the problems it spins off are unlikely to stop at the US border .
Experts from emerging markets and elsewhere have much to say about dealing with financial crises .
America should start to listen before it is too late .
America Keeping Haiti Down
The IDB , the world &apos;s largest regional development bank , works in Latin America and the Caribbean purportedly to &quot; contribute to the acceleration of economic and social development . &quot;
Its actions in Haiti , however , have severely undermined those goals .
Roughly $ 54 million in IDB loans for water infrastructure in Haiti , home to literally the world &apos;s worst water , offered a proven path to preventing deadly water @-@ borne diseases . Designed to assist in fulfilling the right to water in the most impoverished nation in the Western Hemisphere , these loans and the lives they could have saved instead have become pawns in a deliberate political power play .
In 2001 , US officials threatened to use their influence to stop previously approved IDB funding unless Haiti &apos;s majority political party submitted to political demands to accept a particular apportionment of seats in a Haitian electoral oversight body .
Soon after , at the behest of the US , instead of disbursing the loans as planned , the IDB and its members took the unprecedented step of implicitly adding conditions to require political action by Haiti before the funds would be released .
These actions violated the IDB &apos;s own charter , which strictly prohibits the Bank and its members from interfering in the internal political affairs of member states .
Internal emails reveal that a US legal counselor inside the IDB proposed to the US Treasury Department that , though the loans faced no legitimate technical obstacles , the US could effectively block them by &quot; slowing &quot; the process .
Indeed , by requesting further review of the loans , Haiti would have to make scheduled payments before the funds were even disbursed . &quot; While this is not a &quot; bullet @-@ proof &quot; way to stop IDB disbursements , &quot; the counsellor wrote , &quot; it certainly will put a few more large rocks in the road . &quot;
In 2001 , then @-@ US Ambassador to Haiti Dean Curran publicly and explicitly linked the withholding of IDB loans to the demand that Haiti &apos;s political parties reach a compromise that America wanted .
These tactics worked .
Deprived of funds that had already been committed and expected , Haiti fell into arrears on money owed for loan repayment , triggering IDB policies that prevented the Bank from releasing loans .
In subsequent years , the US employed additional delaying tactics , working with the IDB to move the goal posts whenever Haiti appeared to be meeting their demands .
The results have been devastating .
The town of Port @-@ de @-@ Paix , slotted ten years ago by the IDB as the first project site due to its particularly deplorable water situation , has yet to see the implementation of any water projects .
A study conducted by Zanmi Lasante , Partners In Health , the Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Center for Human Rights , and New York University &apos;s Center for Human Rights and Global Justice found no functioning public water sources in the city .
Researchers found three @-@ quarters of water sources in the city contained high levels of coliform bacteria , a key indicator of contamination with fecal matter .
A frightening 15 % of households reported symptoms likely related to typhoid .
If the US and other member states join the IDB and take on the responsibility to improve conditions in the Americas , they cannot then use their membership to undermine the basic rights of the people they claim to serve simply to advance their own political agenda .
The IDB and the US government must take responsibility for their actions and implement the necessary transparency mechanisms to ensure that such abuses do not recur . Congressional inquiries and annual reviews of the Treasury Department by the Government Accountability Office could provide the oversight necessary to prevent future political misuse of the IDB and its funds .
The people of Haiti , as well as US taxpayers , deserve a system that makes public the status of IDB loans and projects in Haiti in order to ensure that the US and IDB member states uphold their commitments to development and human rights .
America &apos;s Anti @-@ Environmentalists
As an American , I am appalled , ashamed , and embarrassed by my country &apos;s lack of leadership in dealing with global warming .
Scientific evidence on the risks mounts by the day , as most recently documented in England &apos;s magisterial Stern Report .
Yet , despite the fact that the United States accounts for roughly 25 % of all man @-@ made global carbon emissions , Americans show little will or inclination to temper their manic consumption .
The first George W. Bush administration was probably right to refuse to sign the so @-@ called &quot; Kyoto Protocol , &quot; albeit for the wrong reasons .
Among other problems , the Kyoto Protocol does not go far enough towards redistributing carbon emission rights towards developing countries .
But why can &apos;t the US bring itself to raise taxes on gasoline and other sources of carbon emission like coal burning power plants ?
It is not like the US government , running a huge deficit despite an economic boom , does not need the money .
Many people seem to think that the Bush administration is the problem .
Put a Texas oilman and his buddies in charge and what do you expect , conservation ?
Unfortunately , that is a facile excuse .
American citizens &quot; resistance to moderating energy consumption for the sake of the global environment is much more deeply embedded .
Consider former US Vice President Al Gore , for example , whose documentary film on global warming , An Inconvenient Truth , is celebrated for its unflinching look at how fossil fuel consumption is leading mankind to the brink of catastrophe .
The evidence on global warming is considerably more muddled than Gore &apos;s film suggests , but the basic problem is real .
Unfortunately , however , Gore was not successful in carrying the torch on global warming when he was a politician .
One cannot commend the 1990 &quot; s Clinton @-@ Gore administration for taking any brave steps aimed at radically reducing carbon emissions .
Small wonder : the American public is fiercely resistant to anything that seriously forces them to compromise on their energy @-@ burning , gas @-@ guzzling lifestyle .
It is not just politicians who have failed to provide leadership here .
The venerable
The typical argument one hears is , &quot; What about the poor guy with the gas @-@ guzzling 1980 Chevy car , who has no other way to get to work ? &quot; It is a legitimate point , but if ocean levels start rising , as the
The change of position by the
Until Americans suck it up and start fixing global environmental problems that they , more than anyone , have caused , it will be difficult to get the wholehearted support of the rest of the world .
Developing countries ask why they should pay attention to global warming if rich countries are not prepared to curtail their own emissions sharply ?
Why should poor countries worry about how deforestation contributes to global warming when rich countries remain so profligate ?
The scientific evidence suggests that carbon emissions from anywhere in the world have about the same impact on global warming .
For this reason , a wide range of economists favor a uniform ( &quot; harmonized &quot; ) global tax that would tax carbon emissions equally everywhere in the world , and from whatever source - whether coal , oil , or gas , and whether consumers or businesses .
Such a tax is the most flexible and market @-@ friendly approach , and would have the least impact on economic growth .
Instead , the complex system of quotas favored by the Europeans and embodied in the Kyoto Protocol is likely to lead to much larger inefficiencies and costs .
For this reason , England &apos;s
America &apos;s unwillingness to take the lead on environmental issues may some day be regarded as one of the country &apos;s most profound political failures .
One hopes that it changes course soon , before we all are forced to wear swimsuits to work .
America &apos;s Anti @-@ Immigrant Road Rage
Because Latin American countries enjoy the billions of dollars that their countrymen in the United States send home , they should take note of how many of their benefactors are being treated by American officials .
Despite their numbers - the Urban Institute estimates that more than nine million undocumented immigrants live in the US , a number that exceeds the entire populations of countries like Costa Rica and Nicaragua - the undocumented worker has long been North America &apos;s favorite punching bag .
Damned on Sunday , they are hired for work on Monday .
Attacks on immigrants went into high gear in February , when the US Congress passed a bill that will make it illegal for any state to issue driver &apos;s licenses to undocumented workers .
No one in America is even writing about this or taking much notice because few care about those who are in the US illegally .
Undocumented workers pick America &apos;s crops , clean Americans &quot; houses , and serve Americans their food , but their fate simply does not matter to many US citizens .
Most groups with nine million members who represent billions of dollars would be raising hell in Congress if they were targeted for ill treatment .
But the money undocumented workers earn goes abroad to build homes , start businesses , and take care of elderly parents throughout Latin America .
So the countries that benefit from this largesse have a responsibility to speak up for the constituents who help keep their economies afloat .
US Congresswoman Linda Sanchez says that if foreign presidents don &apos;t speak up for their constituents in America , few others will .
If California is any indicator , a ban on driver &apos;s licenses won &apos;t be effective in keeping undocumented workers off the road .
It will merely make life riskier and more expensive for them , pushing them even further to the margins of society .
Gil Cedillo , a California state senator who has been trying to reverse earlier legislation that in 1994 made it illegal for undocumented workers in California to drive , wrote in a recent policy paper , &quot; While the number of immigrant drivers may be minimally reduced , most simply drive without being trained , tested , licensed , and insured . &quot;
Unlicensed drivers , he found , are nearly five times more likely to be in a fatal crash .
In addition to all the deaths , the net result of this , Cedillo found , was that unlicensed drivers cost Californians some $ 831 million a year in uninsured motorist coverage .
In some neighborhoods of Los Angeles where undocumented immigrants are concentrated , roughly 90 % of drivers are uninsured .
Immigrants need to get to work and so they buy , sell , drive , and abandon cars in a parallel market .
When I talked to immigrants in Oakland , they called their license &quot; tu licencia con dios , &quot; or &quot; your license with God . &quot;
A benevolent God keeps the immigrant from being stopped by the police .
Undocumented workers thus enter the cycle of those who live and drive with nearly throwaway cars that cost between $ 200 and $ 700 .
When it breaks down , the car of an unlicensed driver is towed to a lot , where it is rarely claimed .
It is then put up for auction and repurchased by agents who in turn sell it to another unlicensed immigrant .
The trick for an immigrant is to always buy cheap , because he never knows how long it will be before a car breaks down .
It is time for Latin America &apos;s leaders to stand up for citizens who mean so much for their countries &quot; economies .
For example , fighting the Congress &apos;s proposed nationwide ban on driver &apos;s licenses for undocumented immigrants could be a high priority while negotiating new trade agreements with the US .
In any case , the time to act is now : once the ban is passed by Congress and signed by the president , it is unlikely to be lifted any time soon .
The California experience is a case in point .
Probably no other state governor has the political clout to win against the tide of activists who regard offering an undocumented immigrant a driver &apos;s license as tantamount to offering them work , which they already have , and legitimacy , which they apparently don &apos;t need to work .
While repealing one law to satisfy his voters - and get elected - Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger promised new legislation that would restore undocumented workers &quot; ability to obtain a driver &apos;s license .
But the anti @-@ immigrant vitriol of the 1990 &quot; s , which pushed California &apos;s legislature to impose the ban , remains strong , and not even the immigrant Terminator can muster the courage to fight it .
Instead , Schwarzenegger , like other Americans , makes laws in the belief that nine million undocumented workers do not matter .
America &apos;s Arab Comeback
AMMAN - Without much fanfare , the past few months have seen no anti @-@ American demonstrations and no burning of American flags across the Arab world .
Arabs seem increasingly willing to accept - and even applaud - the Obama administration &apos;s policy toward the region .
Of course , Arabs are still unhappy with the United States &quot; continued bias towards Israel .
Its inability to end the 44 @-@ year military occupation of Palestinian lands has not gone unnoticed .
But many Arabs nowadays prefer to give the US a break .
With the exception of the Obama administration &apos;s lack of resolve in denouncing the treatment of protesters by the US @-@ allied regimes in Bahrain and Yemen , America &apos;s position on the Arab revolts has been welcomed .
Arabs , especially young Arabs , who comprise the majority of the region &apos;s population , look up to America for its global power when it upholds democratic morals and values .
There is high respect for the concept of rule of , by , and for the people , as well as for the US Constitution &apos;s guarantee of freedom of expression .
It is precisely the failure to apply these values in areas such as Palestine or Iraq that has made - and can still make - countless Arabs vehemently anti @-@ American .
President Barack Obama &apos;s election two years ago positively shocked Arabs and empowered Arab democrats , who saw it as proof of America &apos;s true democratic nature .
Obama &apos;s Cairo speech , delivered on one of his first foreign trips , promised a new US @-@ Arab beginning , and certainly invigorated Arab democrats .
But the first test of Obama &apos;s foreign leadership disappointed many Arabs .
A US veto of a Security Council resolution - supported by the Council &apos;s 14 other members - to oppose Israeli settlements seemed to signal that Obama had crumbled under pressure from America &apos;s pro @-@ Israel lobby .
The US had not revised its policy , even with an African immigrant &apos;s son living in the White House .
A more positive view of Obama emerged when the Arab revolts began in Tunisia and Egypt -countries with pro @-@ US regimes .
While the US initially demonstrated prudence in word and deed , it quickly understood that the revolts truly reflected the will of the people and acted to align itself with the democratic cause .
The same people that Obama had called on in his Cairo speech to seek democracy had now formed the most important nonviolent movement the world had seen in decades .
Arab youth had finally moved , and Obama and his team made the right statements to encourage them , while also making it clear to the Egyptian and Tunisian regimes that they could no longer hide behind the claim that they were fighting America &apos;s war in north Africa .
Pulling away from dictators without trying to take credit for or hijack the revolt was exactly what was required .
Arab youth had to fight and win democracy for themselves .
All that what was wanted from America , most of the young people thought , was withdrawal of its support for allies like Hosni Mubarak and other Arab dictators .
In Libya , however , the need was different .
The same energy on display in Cairo and Tunis was evident among Libyan youth , but this time , America was able to do little diplomatically because it had no relationship with Col. Muammar el @-@ Qaddafi .
So , no surprise , the energy of Libyan youth ran head @-@ on into Qaddafi &apos;s inclination toward brutality and , more importantly , into his paid mercenaries .
America had a moral responsibility to protect the young people whom Obama had encouraged .
Another type of help was needed , but deciding what form it should take was complicated .
Arab countries , especially Egypt , had hundreds of thousands of their nationals working in Libya .
Their governments saw themselves as Qaddafi &apos;s hostages .
But what the Arab countries couldn &apos;t do with military support , they were able to do by providing political cover for the military intervention led by the US , Britain , and France .
The Gulf countries , which have no citizens working in Libya , were the first to denounce Qaddafi .
Then the Arab League met to follow the Gulf states &quot; lead .
With angry young Arabs from different countries demonstrating outside its Cairo offices and demanding support for their Libyan brethren , the Arab League took an uncharacteristic position : it agreed to denounce a fellow Arab leader .
Clearly , the Arab world was changing , and the US was suddenly no longer an enemy , but a friend .
After gaining Security Council support , the US , Europe , and some Arab countries began doing exactly what should be expected of the international community when a government is preparing to butcher its own citizens : prevent the slaughter .
Of course , America &apos;s problems with Arabs and its challenges in the Middle East are far from over .
Obama must still fulfill his promises to celebrate with Palestinians their full membership of the UN this fall and to draw down its forces in Afghanistan .
But , for the moment , Arabs are not demonstrating against America .
Instead , with America &apos;s help , they are enjoying the first blush of freedom .
A New Low for China Bashing
NEW HAVEN - As America &apos;s election season nears its finish , the debate seems to have come unhinged .
Nowhere is that more evident than in the fixation on China - singled out by both President Barack Obama and his Republican challenger , Mitt Romney , as a major source of pressure bearing down on American workers and their families .
Get tough with China , both stressed in the presidential debates , and the pain will ease .
Nothing could be further from the truth .
Consider the following charges :
Currency manipulation . Since China reformed its exchange @-@ rate regime in July 2005 , the renminbi has risen 32 % relative to the dollar and about 30 % in inflation @-@ adjusted terms against a broad basket of currencies .
These are hardly trivial amounts , and more renminbi appreciation can be expected in the years to come .
Unlike Japan , which was pressured by the West into a large yen revaluation in 1985 ( the &quot; Plaza Accord &quot; ) , the Chinese have opted to move gradually and deliberately .
American officials call this &quot; manipulation , &quot; arguing that market forces would have resulted in a sharper renminbi appreciation than has occurred .
Fixated on stability - a concept alien to US politicians and policymakers - the Chinese prefer , instead , to play a more active role in managing the adjustment of their currency .
I call that prudence - perhaps even wisdom .
Two lost decades later , the guinea pig , Japan , might have a view on which approach works best .
Outsourcing and intellectual property . Notwithstanding some recent modest improvements in the US labor market , America &apos;s job situation remains terrible .
Private @-@ sector employment is still down 4.1 million from its January 2008 peak .
Yet there is not a shred of evidence to support bipartisan claims that this ongoing carnage is the result of outsourcing US manufacturing jobs to China .
While the manufacturing sector &apos;s share of private employment fell from 11.9 % in January 2008 to 10.7 % in September 2012 , this is only a small portion of the enormous secular decline since the early 1970 &quot; s , when manufacturing accounted for more than 30 % of private @-@ sector employment .
Weak demand - especially the post @-@ crisis collapse in consumer spending growth - is a far more likely culprit than China in explaining the recent hiring shortfall .
China , for its part , has become a major workhorse of globalization - an assembly hub for inputs produced by multi @-@ country supply chains and an offshore efficiency solution for hard @-@ pressed Western multinational corporations .
About 50 % of all exports leaving China have been processed previously by other economies , and close to 60 % are shipped by Chinese subsidiaries of &quot; foreign @-@ invested enterprises . &quot;
While these trends benefit Chinese workers , they also support America and other countries by holding down inflation and making it possible for their companies to cope with tough competitive pressures .
They allow beleaguered American families to stretch their paychecks ( think Wal @-@ Mart ) .
And they have not stopped innovative Western companies from putting their intellectual property and new technologies on the line in China in order to deliver spectacular new products to US customers ( think Apple ) .
The trade deficit . Yes , the US runs a massive trade deficit with China - around $ 295 billion in 2011 , or fully 40 % of America &apos;s total merchandise trade gap of $ 738 billion .
Republicans and Democrats alike argue that this is the crux of America &apos;s jobs problem . After all , trade deficits mean job losses .
Because the biggest share of the US trade gap is with China , a country vilified as a currency @-@ manipulating cheater , the bilateral trade deficit has become the lightening rod for China bashers .
It is what has driven Obama to go to the mat with China on recent disputes within the World Trade Organization and on restrictions on Chinese investment in Oregon wind farms , and what has led to saber @-@ rattling by Romney on currency manipulation and trade sanctions .
But neither candidate acknowledges the much bigger elephant in the room .
In 2011 , the US had trade deficits with 98 countries .
The other 97 deficits did not magically appear .
They are all part of an enormous multilateral trade deficit that stems from America &apos;s unprecedented shortfall of saving - a depreciation @-@ adjusted &quot; net national saving rate &quot; ( combining businesses , households , and the government sector ) that has been negative since 2008 .
Lacking in savings and wanting to grow , the US runs massive current @-@ account and multilateral trade deficits in order to import other countries &quot; surplus savings .
This goes to the heart of the folly of China bashing .
No leading country in world history has persistently maintained a negative saving rate .
Trade deficits - with China or any other country - are part of the price that America pays for its unbridled profligacy .
Unless and until the US faces up to its chronic aversion to saving - namely , by reducing massive federal budget deficits and encouraging the rebuilding of severely depleted household saving - multilateral trade deficits will persist .
Simple arithmetic and basic economics tell us that a multilateral problem cannot be addressed by a bilateral solution .
Politicians have a penchant for simple and powerful messages .
Yet those messages are often more spin than substance .
American families are hurting , and elected officials want to pin the blame on China , thereby deflecting attention from the difficult task of rebuilding saving , restoring competitiveness , and living within the country &apos;s means .
Indeed , one could argue that it is the American public that is being manipulated by the erroneous charges leveled at China .
Fortunately , the campaign season is nearly over .
Left unanswered , however , is what comes next .
China bashers typically change their tune after a presidential election .
But there is nothing typical about the pressures that are likely to continue squeezing American families long after November 6 .
Both Obama and Romney run the risk of painting themselves into a corner when it comes to China .
That could take all of us to the edge of a slippery slope .
America &apos;s leaders need to come clean with the American people - before it is too late .
America &apos;s Coming Social Democracy ?
Almost all of the world &apos;s developed countries consider themselves , and are , social democracies : mixed economies with very large governments performing a wide array of welfare and social insurance functions , and removing large chunks of wealth and commodity distribution from the market .
The United States is something different .
Or is it ?
Whatever it has been in the past , the US in the future will have to choose whether , and how much , it will be a social democracy .
Once upon a time , according to mythology at least , America had little downward mobility .
On the contrary , before the Civil War you could start out splitting rails , light out for the Western Territory , make a success of yourself on the frontier , and wind up as President - if you were named Abraham Lincoln .
In the generation after World War II , you could secure a blue @-@ collar unionized manufacturing job or climb to the top of a white collar bureaucracy that offered job security , relatively high salaries , and long , stable career ladders .
This was always half myth .
Setting out for the Western Territory was expensive . Covered wagons were not cheap .
Even in the first post @-@ WWII generation , only a minority of Americans - a largely white , male minority - found well @-@ paying stable jobs at large , unionized , capital @-@ intensive manufacturing companies like GM , GE , or AT &amp; T.
But if this story was half myth , it was also half true , particularly in the years after WWII .
Largely independent of education or family , those Americans who did value stability and security could grasp it in the form of jobs with &quot; a future . &quot;
Even for those not so lucky , economic risks were usually fairly low : the unemployment rate for married men during the 1960 &quot; s averaged 2.7 % , and finding a new job was a relatively simple matter .
It was during this era - roughly from 1948 to 1973 - that sociologists found that a majority of Americans had come to define themselves not as working class , but as middle class .
The post @-@ WWII period stands as a reference point in America &apos;s collective memory , but it was in all likelihood an aberration .
In the early postwar decades , foreign competition exerted virtually no pressure on the economy , owing to the isolation of America &apos;s continental market from the devastation of WWII .
At the same time , the war left enormous pent @-@ up demand for the products of mass production : cars , washing machines , refrigerators , lawn mowers , television sets , and more .
Government policy back then began with a permanent military program of spending and R &amp; D and continued through massive public works program and suburbanization , underpinned by the Federal Highway Program and subsidized home ownership loans from the Federal Housing Administration .
The regulatory institutions and behavioral norms that originated in the New Deal and developed during WWII came into full force : social security , a system of unionized labor relations , market regulation .
Favorable macroeconomic circumstances , the absence of foreign competition , a system of government support and regulation , and large @-@ scale private provision of what in Europe would have been public social insurance all combined to give post @-@ WWII America many of social democracy &apos;s benefits without the costs . The economy did not stagger under the weight of ample benefits or high taxes .
Americans - at least white , male Americans - did not have to worry about tradeoffs between security and opportunity , because the US offered the advantages of both .
Corporate welfare capitalism substituted for what in Europe would have been government provided social democracy .
America was thus a special place . It had its cake and ate it , too : a combination of security with opportunity and entrepreneurship .
It seemed that this was the natural order of things .
Hence there was little pressure for government @-@ sponsored social democracy : Why bother ?
What would it add ?
Now things are very different .
The typical American employer is no longer General Motors .
It is Wal @-@ Mart .
Private businesses are providing their workers with less and less in the form of defined @-@ benefit pensions , health insurance , and other forms of insurance against life &apos;s economic risks .
Sharply rising income inequality has raised the stakes of the economic game .
A government that cannot balance its own finances cannot be relied on to provide macroeconomic stability .
Indeed , former Chairman of the US Federal Reserve Paul Volcker sees the US as so macroeconomically vulnerable as to be running a 75 % chance of a full @-@ fledged dollar crisis over the next several years .
The coming generation will be one of massive downward mobility for many Americans .
The political struggles that this generates will determine whether America will move more closely to the social democratic norm for developed countries , or find some way to accept and rationalize its existence as a country of high economic risk and deep divisions of income and wealth .
Syria and September 11
PARIS - By chance , it appears that the US Congress will decide on or around September 11 whether to endorse President Barack Obama &apos;s proposal to respond militarily to the Syrian government &apos;s use of poison gas against civilians .
The shadow of two previous events that took place on September 11 looms over the outcome - indeed , over the fact that the question is even being considered at all .
Long before September 11 became a day of infamy in the United States , it acquired similar significance in Chile , where 40 years ago , on September 11 , 1973 , the armed forces , led by General Augusto Pinochet , overthrew the country &apos;s democratically elected government .
More than any other event of our era , that violent coup was responsible for launching both the contemporary global movement for human rights and the American movement to promote human rights internationally .
In part , this reflected the new regime &apos;s cruelty .
More than three thousand people were murdered or &quot; disappeared &quot; during Pinochet &apos;s rule , thousands more were tortured by his forces , and tens of thousands were forcibly exiled .
To an even greater extent , however , the motivation that spurred the human @-@ rights movement was revulsion worldwide , including in the US , against American aid to Pinochet &apos;s forces , a policy directed by President Richard Nixon and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger .
In the US , members of Congress turned the coup into a platform for efforts to promote human rights .
They condemned developments in Chile , held hearings about the importance of promoting human rights , and adopted legislation - over President Gerald Ford &apos;s veto - requiring that human @-@ rights standards guide US foreign policy .
A slightly revised version of that legislation remains in force .
Obama &apos;s proclamation that the use of chemical weapons in Syria would cross a &quot; red line &quot; - and his implicit threat to use force if that line were crossed - reflects the commitment that the US has made during the past four decades to promote human rights worldwide .
The events of September 11 , 2001 , are also playing a crucial role in deciding the question of a punitive strike against Syrian President Bashar al @-@ Assad &apos;s regime .
One consequence of the terrorist attacks 12 years ago is that Americans and others in the West became aware that developments in the Middle East could affect their own safety and security .
Initially , the attacks unleashed a strong desire to retaliate , which later gave way to caution about intervention , owing to unforeseen consequences .
In Britain , continuing intense resentment over the deceptions that led to the country &apos;s engagement in the Iraq war seems to be the main reason for Parliament &apos;s refusal to back a strike against Syria .
Wariness of another Middle East war has also underpinned Obama &apos;s unwillingness to go beyond a one @-@ time punitive strike on Syria - with some in Congress opposed to even that .
Though Congress must guard against repeating its disastrous mistake in 2003 , when it supported the war in Iraq , the commitment to promote human rights that the US made following September 11 , 1973 , seems a more appropriate standard for weighing Obama &apos;s proposal for US military action in Syria . Maintaining the international prohibition on the use of chemical weapons is an urgent concern .
The Assad regime &apos;s culpability for using these weapons is not in doubt .
If the US Congress deals with Obama &apos;s proposal responsibly , and does not yield to those motivated by a partisan desire to embarrass him at every turn , it will enhance its own claim to recapture the constitutional power to authorize military conflict - a power that has been disregarded more often than not in the past half @-@ century .
A critical part of its role must be to consider with care the limits that should be placed on a punitive strike .
The war in Iraq was misconceived from the start , because it was an attempt to avenge the September 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks by invading and occupying a country that had no part in them .
Obama &apos;s proposal to strike Syria , by contrast , is an attempt to enforce an important human @-@ rights norm by directly punishing - through means that do not involve invasion and occupation - those who committed a gross violation .
It restores human rights to the central place in American foreign policy set forth after September 11 , 1973 .
America &apos;s Constrained Choice
NEWPORT BEACH - The conventional wisdom about the November presidential election in the United States is only partly correct .
Yes , economic issues will play a large role in determining the outcome .
But the next step in the argument - that the winner of an increasingly ugly contest will have the luxury of pursuing significantly different policies from his opponent - is much more uncertain .
By the time the next presidential term starts in January 2013 , and contrary to the current narratives advanced by the Obama and Romney campaigns , the incumbent will find himself with limited room for maneuver on economic policy .
Indeed , the potential differences for America are elsewhere , and have yet to be adequately understood by voters .
They center on the social policies that would accompany a broadly similar set of economic measures ; and , here , the differences between the candidates are consequential .
Whoever wins will face an economy growing at a sluggish 2 % or less next year , with a nagging risk of stalling completely .
Unemployment will still be far too high , and almost half of it will be hard @-@ to @-@ solve , long @-@ term joblessness - and even more if we count ( as we should ) the millions of Americans who have dropped out of the labor force .
The financial side of the economy will also be a source of concern .
The fiscal deficit will continue to flirt with the 10 % -of @-@ GDP level , adding to worries about the country &apos;s medium @-@ term debt dynamics .
The banking sector will still be &quot; de @-@ risking , &quot; limiting the flow of credit to small and medium @-@ size companies and undermining hiring and investment in plant and equipment .
And the household sector will be only partly through its painful de @-@ leveraging phase .
The policy front will be equally unsettling .
Having dithered and bickered for too long , the US Congress will find it increasingly difficult to postpone action on these challenges .
Meanwhile , the Federal Reserve &apos;s unusual activism , including an ever @-@ expanding list of experimental measures , will yield fewer benefits and entail growing costs and risks .
The US economy will also be operating in a more difficult global environment .
In the next few months , Europe &apos;s debt crisis will most likely worsen .
With emerging economies ( including China ) slowing , and with meaningful multilateral policy coordination remaining inadequate , protectionist pressures will mount as major trading powers compete for a stagnant pie .
So , whether President Barack Obama or Mitt Romney prevails in November , the next president will be constrained by the twin need for urgent economic stabilization and longer @-@ term reforms .
And , with headwinds from Europe and a synchronized global slowdown , the candidates will have no choice but to pursue , at least initially , similar economic policies to restore dynamic job creation and financial stability .
In striking the right balance between immediate economic stimulus and medium @-@ term fiscal sustainability , the most urgent step will be to counter properly the looming fiscal cliff , as temporary tax cuts expire and deep , across @-@ the @-@ board spending reductions kick in automatically .
Failure to do so would significantly increase the risk of an outright American recession .
Serious medium @-@ term budget reforms are needed to deal with the legacy of repeated congressional failures .
And , if provided with realistic numbers , the next president will soon recognize that the right mix of tax and spending reforms falls into a much narrower range than today &apos;s competing political narratives suggest .
It is certainly not an either / or proposition .
Fiscal reforms work best in a dynamic economy .
To this end , Obama and Romney will need to lift the impediments to growth and job creation .
Here again - in areas like housing , the labor market , credit intermediation , and infrastructure - there is less room for maneuver than most politicians would like us to believe .
But this does not mean that there is no scope for differences .
There is , and they reflect the fact that general economic tendencies will be accompanied by multi @-@ speed dynamics at many levels .
From persistent differences in unemployment rates depending on skills and education to record @-@ high income and wealth inequalities , each economic decision will be accompanied by the need for social judgment - whether explicit or , more likely , implicit - regarding its distributional impact .
After an &quot; age &quot; of excessive leverage , debt creation , and credit entitlement that culminated in the 2008 global financial crisis , America still faces the tricky challenge of allocating cumulative losses that continuously inhibit investment , jobs , and competitiveness .
Until now , Congress &apos;s excessive political polarization has translated into an approach that has pushed more of the burden of adjustment onto those who are less able to bear it .
In an ideal world , America &apos;s next president would rapidly embark on a two @-@ step approach to restoring job dynamism and financial soundness .
First , he would devise a comprehensive set of economic @-@ policy initiatives that are both feasible and desirable - and , again , the scope for major differences here is limited .
Second , he would accompany this with an explicit set of social policies - and here the potential differences are profound - that addresses the need for equitable burden @-@ sharing .
This is not really an election about such hotly @-@ debated issues as outsourcing , tax increases versus entitlement reforms , government control of production versus unfettered private sector activity , or job creators versus free riders .
It is much more about the accompanying concepts of social fairness , entitlement , equality and , yes , standards of behavior for a rich and civilized society .
This is an election about social responsibility - a society &apos;s obligation to support those who are struggling , through no fault of their own , to find jobs and make ends meet .
It is about protecting the most vulnerable segments of society , including by providing them access to proper health coverage .
It is about reforming an education system that fails America &apos;s young people ( and about providing appropriate retraining to those who need it ) .
Among the numerous issues of fairness and equality , it is about the rich giving back to a system that has brought them unimaginable wealth .
It is here where the differences between Obama and Romney are important .
The sooner the campaign debate pivots to this , the greater the probability that Americans will make a more informed choice and , thus , buy into the collective effort needed to escape national malaise .
America \ u0027s Crisis Election
CAMBRIDGE - On November 4 , Americans will elect their 44th president amidst the worst financial turmoil the country has known since the onset of the Great Depression in 1929 . Both candidates are United States senators with little experience as executives , so their ability to manage the crisis has become a central issue in the election .
At the beginning of the campaign , many observers predicted that Iraq would be the major issue in 2008 .
Instead , it is the financial crisis .
In principle , this should help Barack Obama and the Democrats , because polls show them stronger on economic issues , whereas Republicans and John McCain do better on security issues .
After the Republican convention , polls showed McCain ahead in early September , but after the financial meltdown , Obama took the lead .
Although both men have warily embraced the $ 700 billion bailout of the financial sector , the contrasts between the two men are sharp .
Obama is not only the first African @-@ American nominee of a major party , but also one of the youngest candidates ever .
McCain has experience as a naval aviator and more than two decades in the Senate .
If elected , he would be the oldest incoming president .
The two men differ in temperament as well as experience .
McCain is a man of strong traditional values who prides himself on his willingness to act quickly and decisively , which he sought to do during the negotiations on the bailout by suspending his campaign to return to Washington .
That effort appears to have backfired , because the Republicans that he leads initially balked at passing the legislation .
But McCain has shown himself to be resilient .
In 2007 , many people wrote off his campaign , but he had the skills to resurrect it and capture the Republican nomination .
His choice of Alaska &apos;s Governor Sarah Palin as his running mate shook up the presidential campaign .
Obama , while an inspirational orator , has shown a cool and calm demeanor in responding to both the financial crisis and the turbulence of political campaigning . When embarrassed by comments made by the pastor of his church , he delivered an exceptional speech about race in America .
If anything , some of Obama &apos;s Democratic supporters wish he would show more emotion in responding to criticism .
One should be careful , however , about reading too much into national opinion polls measuring the candidates &quot; popular support .
American presidents are elected by an Electoral College in which each state votes in proportion to the number of members it has in Congress .
Since even the smallest states have two senators , this leads to overrepresentation of lightly populated Western states that tend to vote Republican .
In 2000 , Al Gore won the popular vote , but George W. Bush prevailed in the electoral college .
Thus , the two candidates &quot; campaigns are focusing heavily on a dozen or so states in which voters are closely divided and could sway the electoral college outcome .
Each campaign is now desperately trying to gauge the impact of the financial crisis on these battleground states .
Not only does the Electoral College confuse predictions based on national opinion polls , but there is also the possibility of surprises which can lead to last @-@ minute reversals .
A mistake in a presidential debate can turn the tide of public opinion overnight , as happened to President Gerald Ford in his debate with Jimmy Carter in 1976 .
Conversely , Ronald Reagan &apos;s performance in his debate with Carter in 1980 is often credited with his victory .
Another event that could turn the tables would be an &quot; October surprise &quot; associated with terrorism , which could switch the agenda from the financial crisis back to security , the Republicans &quot; stronger suit .
In 2004 , shortly before the election , Osama bin Laden released a video tape that may have helped President Bush defeat Senator John Kerry .
From bin Laden &apos;s point of view , Bush &apos;s policies were more useful for his efforts to recruit supporters than Kerry &apos;s might have been .
One would assume that Obama would prove even more unsettling to bin Laden .
A recent BBC poll of 22 countries found that if the world could vote , Obama would win in a landslide .
The pro @-@ Obama margin varied from 82 % in Kenya ( where Obama &apos;s father was born ) to 9 % in India .
But Americans do not like outside interference in their elections .
When Obama attracted a crowd of 200,000 to a speech in Berlin last summer , Republicans criticized him as an elitist who appeals to crowds overseas but not to blue @-@ collar workers at home .
On the other hand , in a September poll that asked Americans to rate a series of foreign @-@ policy goals for the next president , 83 % ranked &quot; improving America &apos;s standing in the world &quot; as most important .
And certainly the election of the first African @-@ American as president would do wonders to restore the soft power that the Bush administration squandered over the past eight years .
Some people worry that Obama might be good for American soft power , but not for its hard power .
Machiavelli famously said that it is more important for a prince to be feared than to be loved .
Machiavelli may be correct , but we sometimes forget that the opposite of love is not fear , but hatred .
And Machiavelli made it clear that hatred is something a prince should carefully avoid .
When the exercise of hard power undercuts soft power , it makes leadership more difficult - as Bush found out after the invasion of Iraq .
Both McCain and Obama possess impressive hard @-@ power political and organizational skills ; otherwise , they would not be where they are today .
But when it comes to the soft power skills of emotional intelligence , vision , and communication , Obama outranks McCain .
Whether that will sway American voters wary of financial turmoil on November 4 remains to be seen .
America &apos;s Crony Capitalism
Buenos Aires - For 20 years , Americans have denounced the &quot; crony capitalism &quot; of Third World countries , especially in Asia .
But , just as those regions have been improving their public and corporate governance - Hong Kong just witnessed a breakthrough court decision against a telecom tycoon who is the son of the province &apos;s richest and most powerful man - crony capitalism is taking root in the United States , a country that the world long considered the gold standard of a level playing field in business .
The recently completed &quot; stress tests &quot; of US banks are but the latest indication that crony capitalists have now captured Washington , DC .
It is no surprise that stock markets liked the results of the stress tests that US Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner administered to America &apos;s big banks , for the general outcome had been leaked weeks before .
Indeed , most professional investors trashed the tests as dishonest even as their holdings benefited from a rising market .
Even The Wall Street Journal , usually financial markets &quot; loudest cheerleader , openly disparaged the tests &quot; integrity .
The government had allowed bankers to &quot; negotiate &quot; the results , like a student taking a final examination and then negotiating her grade .
The tests were supposed to reveal the true conditions of banks saddled with unaudited toxic assets in housing loans and financial derivatives .
The reasoning behind the tests seemed unimpeachable .
But was it ?
As any seasoned banker knows , a well @-@ managed bank should undertake internal &quot; stress tests &quot; regularly as a matter of good housekeeping .
The financial crisis should have mandated a running stress test to keep senior management up to date daily . Why , then , did the US need the government to conduct a financial exercise that bankers themselves could and should have done far better and faster ?
The truth is that the tests were not designed to find answers .
Both Wall Street &apos;s chieftains and the Obama administration already knew the truth .
They knew that if the true conditions at many big banks were publicly revealed , many would have been immediately declared bankrupt , necessitating government receivership to stop a tsunami of bank runs .
But the Obama administration did not want to be tagged as &quot; socialist &quot; for nationalizing banks , however temporarily , even though experts such as former US Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker had recommended just that .
Moreover , nationalizing banks would have required dismissing Wall Street captains and their boards for grossly mismanaging their firms .
Wall Street &apos;s titans , however , had convinced Obama and his team that their continued stewardship was essential to getting the world out of its crisis .
They successfully portrayed themselves as victims of a firestorm , rather than as accessories to arson .
Geithner and Larry Summers , Obama &apos;s chief economic advisor , share Wall Street &apos;s culture as protégés of Robert Rubin , the former treasury secretary who went on to serve as a director and senior counselor at Citigroup .
Neither man found it difficult to accept the bankers &quot; absurd logic .
The stress tests were meant to signal to the public that there was no immediate threat of bank failures .
This message , it was hoped , would stabilize the market so that prices for &quot; toxic &quot; assets could rise to a level at which bankers might feel comfortable selling them .
After all , senior bankers had been claiming that these assets were &quot; mispriced , &quot; and that pricing them at market levels would penalize the banks unnecessarily .
So far , Geithner seems to have succeeded in his &quot; tests , &quot; as the stock market has indeed more than stabilized , with prices of bank shares such as Citigroup and Bank of America quadrupling from their lows .
The feared implosion of Wall Street seems to have been avoided .
But no one ever seriously thought that the US would allow Citigroup and Bank of America , to name just two , to fail .
In fact , the stock market bottomed out last winter .
Markets had factored into share prices the belief that the US government would not allow any more banks to collapse .
What the world wanted was an accurate picture of what the banks were worth and &quot; mark @-@ to @-@ market &quot; valuations to guide investors as to how much new capital they needed .
The world also wanted to see the US retaking the high road in reinforcing business ethics and integrity - so lacking under the last administration .
As taxpayers had already put huge sums into rescuing failing banks , with the prospect of more to come , a transparent process to reveal how the money was being used was imperative .
Substantial public rescue funds have reportedly been siphoned off to foreign banks , Goldman Sachs , and staff bonuses for purposes unrelated to protecting public interests .
None of this was either revealed or debunked by Geithner &apos;s tests .
Instead , public servants now appear to be in cahoots with Wall Street to engineer an artificial aura of profitability .
Moreover , the value of toxic assets remains as murky as ever .
Once sacrosanct accounting principles have been amended at Wall Street &apos;s behest in order to allow banks to report essentially whatever they want .
And now negotiated stress test results have been released to &quot; prove &quot; that the banks are a lot healthier .
Calling this a Ponzi scheme might be too harsh .
But few financial professionals have been fooled .
Meanwhile , Wall Street chieftains and their boards of directors have nothing to fear from government .
On the contrary , they are now the government &apos;s partners in a joint venture to manage this dishonest scheme .
Like swine flu , crony capitalism has migrated from corrupt Third World countries to America , once the citadel of sound public and private governance .
Is it any wonder that China is perceived as an increasingly credible model for much of the developing world , while the US is now viewed as a symbol of hypocrisy and double standards ?
America &apos;s Dangerous Debt Ceiling Debate
NEWPORT BEACH - It has been raised more than 70 times in the last 50 years , mostly without commotion .
It must be raised again this summer if the United States government is to continue paying its bills on time .
But now America &apos;s debt ceiling has become the subject of intense political posturing and touch @-@ and @-@ go negotiations behind closed doors .
And , obviously , the outcome has implications that go well beyond the US .
As part of America &apos;s system of checks and balances , Congress gets to do more than just approve the annual federal budget .
It also sets a limit on how much debt the US Treasury is allowed to issue .
Beyond this ceiling , the government can spend only from current revenues .
US Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner recently informed members of Congress that the government will be in this situation on or around August 2 .
Having already officially hit the ceiling , the Treasury is moving money around and tapping various pots of unused funds to pay its bills .
In a few weeks , this &quot; flexibility &quot; will be used up .
With the US government now borrowing around 40 % of every dollar it spends , a truly binding debt ceiling would immediately force the government to reduce spending radically and in a disorderly fashion .
Politicians across the political spectrum know that such a situation would unsettle an already fragile US economy , severely weaken the dollar , and raise serious concerns about the country &apos;s ability to meet its debt @-@ service obligations , including to the many foreign creditors that the US will need in the future .
Yet , in today &apos;s polarized environment in Washington , Republicans and Democrats are unwilling to compromise - or at least to compromise &quot; too early . &quot;
By holding out , Republicans wish to force President Barack Obama &apos;s administration into massive spending cuts .
Democrats respond that such a one @-@ sided approach would be economically harmful and socially unjust .
In the meantime , both sides risk disrupting transfer payments ( including to the elderly ) and the provision of public services , as well as eroding further America &apos;s global credit standing .
The overwhelming - and sensible - expectation is that the two parties will compromise and raise the debt ceiling before inflicting serious economic and financial dislocations .
The most recent precedent was the bipartisan agreement reached earlier this year on another fiscal issue that threatened to disrupt the normal functioning of government : the absence of a formally approved budget for this year .
A compromise would allow both parties to declare partial victory , for it would likely entail commitments to cut spending and some steps to make taxation more socially just .
But , like many last @-@ minute agreements , it would have little durable impact .
In effect , the political system would again be kicking the can down the road , with real progress on necessary fiscal reforms expected only after the November 2012 presidential election .
Two scenarios for the timing of an interim compromise are possible , depending on whether it is a one- or two @-@ step process .
Most observers expect a one @-@ step process for bipartisan agreement before August 2 .
But politicians may need two steps : an initial failure to agree , and then a quick deal in response to the resulting financial @-@ market convulsions .
In the meantime , the Treasury would temporarily re @-@ prioritize and slow outgoing payments .
This two @-@ step process would be similar to what happened in 2008 , when Congress was confronted with another cliffhanger : the Bush administration &apos;s request for $ 700 billion to prevent a financial @-@ market collapse and an economic depression .
Congress initially rejected the measure , but a dramatic 770 @-@ point drop in the stock market focused politicians &quot; minds , bringing them back to the table - and to agreement .
But the two @-@ step scenario involves incremental risks to the US economy , and to its standing in the global system .
And the longer America &apos;s politicians take to resolve the debt @-@ ceiling issue , the greater the risk of an inadvertent accident .
This brings us to a third , and even more unsettling possibility : a longer and more protracted negotiation , resulting in greater disruptions to government entitlement payments , other contractual obligations , and public services .
Creditors would then ask many more questions before adding to their already @-@ considerable holdings of US government debt , generating still more headwinds in a US economy that already faces an unemployment crisis and uneven growth .
The next few weeks will provide plenty of political drama .
The baseline expectation , albeit subject to risk , is that Democrats and Republicans will find a way to avoid disruptions that would damage the fragile US economy , but that the compromise will not meaningfully address the need for sensible medium @-@ term fiscal reforms .
Such political paralysis on key economic issues is increasingly unsettling for the US private sector , and for other countries that rely on a strong US at the core of the global economy .
This helps to explain why so many companies continue to hoard cash , rather than investing domestically , and why a growing number of countries want to diversify gradually away from dependence on the dollar as the reserve currency and on US financial markets for intermediation of their hard @-@ earned savings .
The world economy is hard @-@ wired to the assumption of a strong America , and Americans benefit from this .
But the more their politicians argue over the debt ceiling , the greater the risk that the wiring will become irreparably frayed .
America &apos;s Day of Reckoning
The pessimists who have long forecasted that America &apos;s economy was in for trouble finally seem to be coming into their own .
Of course , there is no glee in seeing stock prices tumble as a result of soaring mortgage defaults .
But it was largely predictable , as are the likely consequences for both the millions of Americans who will be facing financial distress and the global economy .
The story goes back to the recession of 2001 .
With the support of Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan , President George W. Bush pushed through a tax cut designed to benefit the richest Americans but not to lift the economy out of the recession that followed the collapse of the Internet bubble .
Given that mistake , the Fed had little choice if it was to fulfill its mandate to maintain growth and employment : it had to lower interest rates , which it did in an unprecedented way - all the way down to 1 % .
It worked , but in a way fundamentally different from how monetary policy normally works .
Usually , low interest rates lead firms to borrow more to invest more , and greater indebtedness is matched by more productive assets .
But , given that overinvestment in the 1990 &quot; s was part of the problem underpinning the recession , lower interest rates did not stimulate much investment .
The economy grew , but mainly because American families were persuaded to take on more debt , refinancing their mortgages and spending some of the proceeds .
And , as long as housing prices rose as a result of lower interest rates , Americans could ignore their growing indebtedness .
In fact , even this did not stimulate the economy enough .
To get more people to borrow more money , credit standards were lowered , fueling growth in so @-@ called &quot; subprime &quot; mortgages .
Moreover , new products were invented , which lowered upfront payments , making it easier for individuals to take bigger mortgages .
Some mortgages even had negative amortization : payments did not cover the interest due , so every month the debt grew more .
Fixed mortgages , with interest rates at 6 % , were replaced with variable @-@ rate mortgages , whose interest payments were tied to the lower short @-@ term T @-@ bill rates .
What were called &quot; teaser rates &quot; allowed even lower payments for the first few years : they were teasers , because they played off the fact that many borrowers were not financially sophisticated , and didn &apos;t really understand what they were getting into .
And Alan Greenspan egged them to pile on the risk by encouraging these variable @-@ rate mortgages .
On February 23 , 2004 , he pointed out that &quot; many homeowners might have saved tens of thousands of dollars had they held adjustable @-@ rate mortgages rather than fixed @-@ rate mortgages during the past decade . &quot;
But did Greenspan really expect interest rates to remain permanently at 1 % - a negative real interest rate ?
Did he not think about what would happen to poor Americans with variable @-@ rate mortgages if interest rates rose , as they almost surely would ?
Of course , Greenspan &apos;s behavior meant that under his watch , the economy performed better than it otherwise would have .
But it was only a matter of time before that performance became unsustainable .
Fortunately , most Americans did not follow Greenspan &apos;s advice to switch to variable @-@ rate mortgages .
But even as short @-@ term interest rates began to rise , the day of reckoning was postponed , as new borrowers could obtain fixed @-@ rate mortgages at interest rates that were not increasing .
Remarkably , as short @-@ term interest rates rose , medium- and long @-@ term interest rates did not , something that was referred to as a &quot; conundrum . &quot;
One hypothesis is that foreign central banks that were accumulating trillions of dollars finally figured out that they were likely to be holding these reserves for years to come , and could afford to put at least some of the money into medium @-@ term US treasury notes yielding ( initially ) far higher returns than T @-@ bills .
The housing price bubble eventually broke , and , with prices declining , some have discovered that their mortgages are larger than the value of their house .
Others found that as interest rates rose , they simply could not make their payments .
Too many Americans built no cushion into their budgets , and mortgage companies , focusing on the fees generated by new mortgages , did not encourage them to do so .
Just as the collapse of the real estate bubble was predictable , so are its consequences : housing starts and sales of existing homes are down and housing inventories are up .
By some reckonings , more than two @-@ thirds of the increase in output and employment over the past six years has been real estate @-@ related , reflecting both new housing and households borrowing against their homes to support a consumption binge .
The housing bubble induced Americans to live beyond their means - net savings has been negative for the past couple of years .
With this engine of growth turned off , it is hard to see how the American economy will not suffer from a slowdown .
A return to fiscal sanity will be good in the long run , but it will reduce aggregate demand in the short run .
There is an old adage about how people &apos;s mistakes continue to live long after they are gone .
That is certainly true of Greenspan .
In Bush &apos;s case , we are beginning to bear the consequences even before he has departed .
America &apos;s Deepening Moral Crisis
NEW YORK - America &apos;s political and economic crisis is set to worsen following the upcoming November elections .
President Barack Obama will lose any hope for passing progressive legislation aimed at helping the poor or the environment .
Indeed , all major legislation and reforms are likely to be stalemated until 2013 , following a new presidential election .
An already bad situation marked by deadlock and vitriol is likely to worsen , and the world should not expect much leadership from a bitterly divided United States .
Much of America is in a nasty mood , and the language of compassion has more or less been abandoned .
Both political parties serve their rich campaign contributors , while proclaiming that they defend the middle class .
Neither party even mentions the poor , who now officially make up 15 % of the population but in fact are even more numerous , when we count all those households struggling with health care , housing , jobs , and other needs .
The Republican Party recently issued a &quot; Pledge to America &quot; to explain its beliefs and campaign promises .
The document is filled with nonsense , such as the fatuous claim that high taxes and over @-@ regulation explain America &apos;s high unemployment .
It is also filled with propaganda .
A quotation by President John F. Kennedy states that high tax rates can strangle the economy , but Kennedy &apos;s was speaking a half @-@ century ago , when the top marginal tax rates were twice what they are today .
Most of all , the Republican platform is devoid of compassion .
America today presents the paradox of a rich country falling apart because of the collapse of its core values .
American productivity is among the highest in the world .
Average national income per person is about $ 46,000 - enough not only to live on , but to prosper .
Yet the country is in the throes of an ugly moral crisis .
Income inequality is at historic highs , but the rich claim that they have no responsibility to the rest of society .
They refuse to come to the aid of the destitute , and defend tax cuts at every opportunity .
Almost everybody complains , almost everybody aggressively defends their own narrow and short @-@ term interests , and almost everybody abandons any pretense of looking ahead or addressing the needs of others .
What passes for American political debate is a contest between the parties to give bigger promises to the middle class , mainly in the form of budget @-@ busting tax cuts at a time when the fiscal deficit is already more than 10 % of GDP .
Americans seem to believe that they have a natural right to government services without paying taxes .
In the American political lexicon , taxes are defined as a denial of liberty .
There was a time , not long ago , when Americans talked of ending poverty at home and abroad .
Lyndon Johnson &apos;s War on Poverty in the mid @-@ 1960 &quot; s reflected an era of national optimism and the belief that society should make collective efforts to solve common problems , such as poverty , pollution , and health care .
America in the 1960 &quot; s enacted programs to rebuild poor communities , to fight air and water pollution , and to ensure health care for the elderly .
Then the deep divisions over Vietnam and civil rights , combined with a surge of consumerism and advertising , seemed to end an era of shared sacrifice for the common good .
For 40 years , compassion in politics receded .
Ronald Reagan gained popularity by cutting social benefits for the poor ( claiming that the poor cheated to receive extra payments ) .
Bill Clinton continued those cuts in the 1990 &quot; s .
Today , no politician even dares to mention help for poor people .
The big campaign contributors to both parties pay to ensure that their vested interests dominate political debates .
That means that both parties increasingly defend the interests of the rich , though Republicans do so slightly more than Democrats .
Even a modest tax increase on the rich is unlikely to find support in American politics .
The result of all of this is likely to be a long @-@ term decline of US power and prosperity , because Americans no longer invest collectively in their common future .
America will remain a rich society for a long time to come , but one that is increasingly divided and unstable .
Fear and propaganda may lead to more US @-@ led international wars , as in the past decade .
And what is happening in America is likely to be repeated elsewhere .
America is vulnerable to social breakdown because it is a highly diverse society .
Racism and anti @-@ immigrant sentiments are an important part of the attack on the poor , or at least the reason why so many are willing to heed the propaganda against helping the poor .
As other societies grapple with their own increasing diversity , they may follow the US into crisis .
Swedes recently gave enough votes to a right @-@ wing , anti @-@ immigrant party to give it representation in parliament , reflecting a growing backlash against the rising number of immigrants in Swedish society .
In France , Nicolas Sarkozy &apos;s government has tried to regain popularity with the working class by deporting Roma migrants , a target of widespread hatred and ethnic attacks .
Both examples show that Europe , like the US , is vulnerable to the politics of division , as our societies become more ethnically diverse .
The lesson from America is that economic growth is no guarantee of wellbeing or political stability .
American society has become increasingly harsh , where the richest Americans buy their way to political power , and the poor are abandoned to their fate .
In their private lives , Americans have become addicted to consumerism , which drains their time , savings , attention , and inclination to engage in acts of collective compassion .
The world should beware .
Unless we break the ugly trends of big money in politics and rampant consumerism , we risk winning economic productivity at the price of our humanity .
America &apos;s Economic Stalemate
CAMBRIDGE - The United States appears trapped in a dangerous economic stalemate . &amp; # 160 ; The refusal by both Republicans and Democrats to give ground on the budget is preventing the government from dealing with its massive fiscal deficit and rapidly rising national debt .
Indeed , the Congressional Budget Office projects that the national debt could increase to 82 % of GDP over the next ten years - more than double the debt ratio as recently as 2008 .
That forecast , moreover , is based on quite optimistic assumptions of strong economic growth and low interest rates .
With slower growth and more normal interest rates , the debt ratio could easily rise to more than 100 % in 2021 , and exceed 150 % by 2030 .
A major reason for the accelerating growth in government debt is America &apos;s rapidly aging population and the resulting increase in the cost of the universal pension and health @-@ care programs - Social Security and Medicare .
Most experts believe that limiting the rise in debt will require slowing the growth of these &quot; entitlement &quot; programs and increasing taxes as a share of GDP .
But President Barack Obama and the congressional Democrats oppose any reduction in future entitlement programs , while the Republican presidential candidates and their party &apos;s congressional delegation oppose any increase in tax revenues .
The result is the current stalemate in reducing the fiscal deficit and reversing the growth of the national debt .
Republicans argue that the national debt &apos;s growth should be limited only by cutting government spending .
Although some cuts in traditional outlays should be part of efforts to rein in spending , this approach should be supplemented by reducing &quot; tax expenditures &quot; - the special features of the tax code that subsidize health care , mortgage borrowing , local @-@ government taxes , etc ..
Limiting tax expenditures could reduce the annual deficit by as much as 2 % of GDP , thereby reducing the debt @-@ to @-@ GDP ratio in 2021 by more than 25 percentage points .
Republicans generally reject this form of spending reduction , because it results in additional tax revenue .
While this method does indeed increase total revenue , the economic effect of limiting tax expenditures is the same as it is under any other method of cutting spending on those programs .
But the Republicans &quot; opposition to anything that raises revenue means that this key to breaking the budget stalemate won &apos;t be implemented .
The budget cost of Social Security pensions could be gradually reduced by substituting annuities generated by investment @-@ based personal retirement accounts for part of the current tax @-@ financed benefits .
But even though such a reform could maintain income levels for retirees , Democrats oppose it , because it lowers traditional government benefits .
This reinforces the stalemate .
The two parties &quot; hardline stances anticipate the upcoming congressional and presidential elections in November 2012 .
The Republicans , in effect , face the voters with a sign that says , &quot; We won &apos;t raise your taxes , but the Democrats will . &quot; The Democrats &quot; sign , by contrast , says , &quot; We won &apos;t reduce your pension or health benefits , but the Republicans will . &quot;
Neither side wants any ambiguity in their message before the election , thus ruling out the possibility of any immediate changes in tax expenditures or future Social Security pensions .
But , for the same reason , I am optimistic that the stalemate will end after the election .
At that point , both Republicans and Democrats will be able to accept reforms that they must reject now .
Another post @-@ election route to deficit reduction would be to lower marginal tax rates and balance that revenue loss with cuts in tax expenditures .
Official analyses downplay the effect of lower marginal tax rates on taxable income , but experience shows that taxable income rises substantially as taxpayers respond to lower marginal rates by working more , taking more of their compensation in taxable cash than in fringe benefits , and reducing their tax @-@ deductible consumption .
Reducing tax expenditures while lowering marginal tax rates can produce substantial revenue by increasing the level of taxable income . &amp; # 160 ;
The current economic stalemate is troubling , because financial markets could react adversely , and because delays in addressing the fiscal deficit means a higher national debt .
I may be too optimistic , but I think there is good reason to believe that the current budget stalemate reflects election posturing , and that the US political system will prove more effective at making progress on fiscal consolidation once the election is past .
America &apos;s Election and the Global Economy
STANFORD - As America &apos;s elections approach , with President Barack Obama slightly in front of his Republican challenger , former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney , pollsters still rate the races for control of the presidency and the United States Senate too close to call , with the House of Representatives likely to remain in Republican hands .
The differences between the candidates are considerable , and highly consequential for American economic policy and the global economy , although enactment of their programs will depend on the makeup of Congress .
The most important differences between the two candidates can be summarized as follows :
Spending .
Obama has dramatically increased spending .
He would likely continue many of his temporary programs ( as Milton Friedman once observed , &quot; There is nothing so permanent as a temporary government program . &quot; ) ; double down on having government pick winners and losers in green energy ; expand spending on education and infrastructure ; and substantially reduce defense expenditures .
Romney , by contrast , favors limiting overall federal spending , currently 24 % of GDP , to 20 % , and keeping defense at 4 % .
He wants private markets , not government , to choose winning firms and technologies .
Democrats oppose most nondefense spending cuts , arguing that reductions would cause the economy to contract .
That case is strongest if the spending reductions are large and abrupt in a weak economy . If phased in over a multi @-@ year period as the economy recovers , as Romney proposes , thrift would likely be expansionary .
For example , federal spending relative to GDP fell by five percentage points from the mid @-@ 1980 &quot; s to the late 1990 &quot; s in the US , and by an even larger margin in recent decades in Canada - that is , through periods of strong economic growth .
Taxes .
Obama would raise the top marginal tax rates on wages , capital gains , dividends , interest , and estates , especially on higher @-@ income individuals and small businesses .
Yet he has never proposed comprehensive reform of either the personal or corporate income tax .
By contrast , Romney would reduce America &apos;s corporate tax rate ( the highest in the OECD ) to 25 % and tax American multinationals on a territorial , rather than a worldwide , basis in order to increase their tax competitiveness .
He would also lower personal tax rates by 20 % , and make up lost revenue by limiting tax deductions and credits , particularly at the upper end , thereby raising about 18.5 % of GDP , just above the historical average , at full employment .
Romney &apos;s fiscal plan thus reduces deficits sufficiently to decrease the debt @-@ to @-@ GDP ratio .
He favors a balanced @-@ budget amendment to the Constitution , and hopes to balance the budget over eight years .
Obama , by contrast , would run larger deficits - his spending increase is much larger than his tax increase - which imply large tax hikes in the future .
Moreover , he would run far larger debt ratios than Romney , because the main driver of the debt is entitlement spending .
Entitlements .
Obama has remained silent about reform of Medicare and Social Security , whose long @-@ run deficits are several times the national debt .
Vice President Joe Biden has even said that &quot; no changes &quot; to Social Security are to be made .
Romney supports gradually increasing retirement ages , a premium @-@ support model for Medicare , and shifting Medicaid ( health insurance for the poor ) to the states via block grants .
The Obama campaign is pummeling Romney on Medicare , and the Romney campaign is hammering Obama for his refusal to negotiate or even propose a solution .
The Obama policy would thus lead to ever @-@ higher deficits and debt ratios well over 100 % of GDP , a level that numerous studies imply would reduce US economic growth by one @-@ third or more and might induce a sovereign @-@ debt crisis .
Some observers suggest that Obama &apos;s unspoken plan is ever @-@ growing entitlements eventually paid for by a European @-@ style value @-@ added tax .
Trade .
Obama is the first US president in a long time who has not played a leading role on global trade liberalization .
The Doha Round of global trade talks remains stalled , and Obama delayed the three bilateral free @-@ trade agreements that awaited approval when he came into office .
Romney is a proponent of free trade , but has said that he would be tougher on China &apos;s trade practices and currency policies .
Regulation .
Obama wants to expand federal command @-@ and @-@ control regulation further ( though the courts have stopped his extension of some regulatory powers ) .
Romney vows an economically balanced approach that would reform Obama &apos;s major health @-@ care , environmental , and financial @-@ services regulations .
Appointments .
Every US president appoints thousands of officials , many with considerable power .
Romney has said that he would not reappoint Ben Bernanke as Fed Chairman ( likely candidates : economists Glenn Hubbard , Greg Mankiw , John Taylor , and Martin Feldstein ) .
Other presidential appointees exert considerable influence on firms , industries , or the entire economy . For example , Obama &apos;s appointees to the obscure National Labor Relations Board tried to prevent Boeing from expanding in South Carolina , despite the state &apos;s anti @-@ union &quot; right to work &quot; legislation .
These policies would affect US economic growth , the budget deficit , national saving , and hence global trade and capital flows .
With larger deficits under Obama than under Romney , America would need more capital from Europe , Latin America , and Asia , while higher taxes and debt would impede US growth and thus undermine these regions &quot; exports .
Obama would steer America in the direction of European social @-@ welfare states ; Romney &apos;s agenda is designed to prevent that .
Whoever wins , a fiscal cliff looms at the end of 2012 .
Previous legislation , if not reversed , will lead to large abrupt tax hikes and spending cuts , which the Congressional Budget Office forecasts would likely cause a recession in 2013 .
While a post @-@ election , lame @-@ duck session of Congress will address the fiscal cliff , the deep differences between Republicans and Democrats on taxes and spending remain wide and difficult to bridge .
With uncertainty plaguing Europe &apos;s finances and China slowing , the last thing the global economy needs is a stagnant or shrinking US economy .
But it will take strong leadership by the president @-@ elect to avoid it .
America &apos;s Employment and Growth Challenges
NEW YORK - For many , if not most , Americans , the crisis that befell them in 2008 - leading to slow growth , rising unemployment , and high anxiety among voters - appeared to spring from nowhere .
Certainly , the vast majority of economists , investment analysts , financial firms , and regulators failed to see the growing risk .
In fact , it had deep roots .
While the precise timing of any crisis is impossible to predict , ample signs of rising risk , distortions , structural problems , and imbalances could be seen by anyone who took the time to interpret a decade &apos;s worth of mounting debt , low savings , surging asset prices , and excess consumption .
The United States was on an unsustainable growth path for at least a decade - probably longer - before the crisis .
Restoring balance and eliminating the distortions will require time , investment , and structural change , and should be the central focus of America &apos;s economic policy .
The household sector is especially important .
If the main problem had been confined to excess leverage and risk @-@ taking within the financial sector , the economic shock would have been large , but the recovery quicker .
It was the huge loss of households &quot; net worth that brought down the real economy ( with an assist from the credit squeeze on smaller businesses ) .
Let &apos;s be clear : elevated savings and reduced consumption relative to pre @-@ crisis levels are likely to be permanent even after households reduce leverage and restore retirement savings - a process that in the US has removed roughly $ 1 trillion from the demand side of the economy .
To make up the difference , Americans need to compete effectively for a portion of global demand .
Does this mean that the US is headed for a &quot; new normal , &quot; rather than a reversion to pre @-@ crisis conditions ?
It does . Put bluntly , Americans were living beyond their means for too long .
With foreign borrowing financing a yawning trade deficit , the US economy as a whole spent more than it earned , which both caused and hid structural problems .
So the main post @-@ crisis challenge is not to return to the old normal , which was not sustainable , nor is it to recover from a deep balance @-@ sheet recession , but rather to make a structural transition from the old abnormal to a new normal that is sustainable .
This does not mean that recovery of households &quot; balance sheets can be ignored in the post @-@ crisis period .
The US Federal Reserve has had to carry out a difficult balancing act : with no sign of inflation on the horizon - and at least some risk of deflation - it has maintained low interest rates even as credit conditions have eased . Contrary to most commentary , this is not a growth strategy , but rather an attempt to limit the considerable risk of another major downturn , induced by further balance @-@ sheet damage in the housing sector .
True , low interest rates , together with a second round of quantitative easing , are causing considerable global distortions , as funds flow into fast @-@ growing emerging markets , fueling inflationary pressure and asset bubbles .
But , given the US housing market &apos;s fragility , raising interest rates could cause prices to plummet , sinking the economy again . Despite their complaints , it is not clear that emerging economies would prefer another deep US downturn to the current flood of inbound capital that that they must manage .
As it is , deficient consumption and stubbornly high unemployment are likely to be with Americans for some time .
But this is not how the future was sold to the public , and , until recently , financial markets were acting as if recovery was at hand and would be relatively quick .
The proverbial dead @-@ cat bounce - when freefall stops and inventories run out , causing output to pick up a bit - was misinterpreted as evidence of a V @-@ shaped recovery : sharply down and sharply back up .
Despite the impression created , particularly in the US , by media commentary and political debate , fiscal stimulus clearly helped in the crisis , though its impact is diminishing rapidly .
Recent studies by the International Monetary Fund indicate that in most advanced countries , including the US , the growth in budget deficits was largely automatic , owing far more to declining tax revenues and rising expenditures on unemployment benefits than to stimulus spending .
The appropriate timing of fiscal retrenchment is , in fact , difficult to decide .
On one side is concern about another downturn and deflation .
On the other side is the risk of excessive debt , currency instability , and - where unemployment is structural - doubts about the benefits of additional stimulus .
Indeed , advanced countries , including the US , have dug themselves into a deep hole .
It is not yet a hole of the type one finds in Greece , where restoring fiscal balance and reviving economic growth are probably impossible without a restructuring of public debt . But climbing out will be difficult and painful .
At this stage , the best course would be to adopt a credible multi @-@ year plan , based on reasonable but conservative growth assumptions , to reduce deficits to sustainable levels and limit the accumulation of public debt .
With a new , more hostile Congress , and with members of a new economic team coming on board , Obama &apos;s challenge is to build a consensus around a medium- and long @-@ term recovery strategy , with a focus on restoring growth and employment .
The limited fiscal resources that are available should be targeted on areas that affect competitiveness in the tradable sector .
That means forgoing some government services .
The truth is that all the net employment growth in the US economy over the last 20 years has been in the non @-@ tradable sector , where Americans don &apos;t have to compete .
Leading drivers of employment growth have been government , health care , and , until the crisis , construction .
While this is just one part of a much more complex story , it seems unlikely that these and other non @-@ tradable sectors can sustain employment growth in the future .
With the tradable sector neutralized and the non @-@ tradable sectors maxed out , the economy lacks sufficiently powerful growth engines .
That must be fixed , which requires that competitiveness become the central focus of longer @-@ term US economic policy - the sooner , the better .
America &apos;s Employment Dilemma
BERKELEY - There are always two paths to boost employment in the short term .
The first path is to boost demand for goods and services , and then sit back and watch employment rise as businesses hire people to make the goods and services to meet that demand .
The second path is not to worry about production of goods and services , but rather to try to boost employment directly through direct government hiring .
The first path is better : not only do you get more jobs , but you also get more useful stuff produced .
The problem is that it does not take effect very quickly .
It is subject to what Milton Friedman called &quot; long and variable lags . &quot;
Thus , policies aimed at boosting employment by the end of , say , this calendar year needed to be put in place about a year ago to have time to have reached their full effect .
Some countries - China , for example - did , indeed , implement such job @-@ creation policies a year ago and are already seeing the benefits .
Others , like the United States , did not , and so unemployment remains at around 10 % .
This is not to say that the Obama administration did not try to boost employment .
A year ago , it set five policy initiatives in motion :
• Additional deficit spending ;
• Recapitalization of banks that appeared very vulnerable ;
• Asset purchases by the US Treasury and other executive @-@ branch entities to reduce the quantity of risky assets that the battered and risk @-@ intolerant private sector was holding ;
• Continued monetary easing via very low Federal Funds rates ;
• Expansion of extraordinary policy interventions by the Federal Reserve .
The stress tests conducted by the US Treasury last year suggested that the banking sector had re @-@ attained sufficient capital .
And the Fed has continued its low @-@ interest monetary policy .
But the dysfunctional US Senate capped additional deficit spending at $ 600 billion over three years - only half of the $ 1.2 trillion that was the technocratic goal .
Moreover , the Fed became gun @-@ shy and did not continue to increase its balance sheet beyond $ 2 trillion .
And large @-@ scale market interventions funded and guided by the Treasury never came to pass on a sufficiently large scale to have any tangible effect on jobs .
In short , perhaps two and a half out of the Obama administration &apos;s five policy initiatives came to fruition .
And , in the face of a recessionary crisis that turned out to be roughly twice as large as was forecast at the end of 2008 , such limited action was not enough to keep the US unemployment rate below 10 % - or even set it on a downward trajectory .
This brings us to the present moment , with US unemployment unacceptably high and refusing to fall .
As a result , there is now a very strong case to turn the focus of the US economy from measures aimed at increasing demand to measures aimed at boosting employment directly ( without worrying much about whether these measures are efficient in the sense of substantially raising the quantity of goods and services produced ) .
In practice , that means that the government either hires people and puts them to work or induces businesses to hire more people .
We are talking about either direct government employment programs , or large tax credits for businesses that increase the number of workers they employ .
There is still time for a substantial shift in federal spending toward high @-@ employment ( but in all likelihood low @-@ value ) projects to reduce unemployment before the end of 2010 - if Congress acts quickly .
And there is still time for a substantial temporary and incremental new @-@ hire tax credit aimed at getting businesses to boost employment before the end of 2010 .
But will Congress act quickly ?
Given the depth of political polarization in the US , and thus the need for 60 of 100 votes in the Senate to end a Republican filibuster , there is no sign of it being able to do so .
Such a plan can get off the ground only if 50 Democratic senators are willing to rely on the budget reconciliation process - used to combine the bills adopted by the House of Representatives and the Senate - and are willing to accelerate that process and complete it within a month .
Don &apos;t hold your breath .
America &apos;s Failed Militarized Foreign Policy
Many of today &apos;s war zones - including Afghanistan , Ethiopia , Iran , Iraq , Pakistan , Somalia , and Sudan - share basic problems that lie at the root of their conflicts .
They are all poor , buffeted by natural disasters - especially floods , droughts , and earthquakes - and have rapidly growing populations that are pressing on the capacity of the land to feed them .
And the proportion of youth is very high , with a bulging population of young men of military age ( 15 @-@ 24 years ) .
All of these problems can be solved only through long @-@ term sustainable economic development .
Yet the United States persists in responding to symptoms rather than to underlying conditions by trying to address every conflict by military means .
It backs the Ethiopian army in Somalia .
It occupies Iraq and Afghanistan .
It threatens to bomb Iran .
It supports the military dictatorship in Pakistan .
None of these military actions addresses the problems that led to conflict in the first place .
On the contrary , American policies typically inflame the situation rather than solve it .
Time and again , this military approach comes back to haunt the US .
The US embraced the Shah of Iran by sending massive armaments , which fell into the hands of Iran &apos;s Revolutionary Government after 1979 .
The US then backed Saddam Hussein in his attack on Iran , until the US ended up attacking Saddam himself .
The US backed Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan against the Soviets , until the US ended up fighting bin Laden .
Since 2001 the US has supported Pervez Musharraf in Pakistan with more than $ 10 billion in aid , and now faces an unstable regime that just barely survives .
US foreign policy is so ineffective because it has been taken over by the military .
Even postwar reconstruction in Iraq under the US @-@ led occupation was run by the Pentagon rather than by civilian agencies .
The US military budget dominates everything about foreign policy .
Adding up the budgets of the Pentagon , the Iraq and Afghanistan wars , the Department of Homeland Security , nuclear weapons programs , and the State Department &apos;s military assistance operations , the US will spend around $ 800 billion this year on security , compared with less than $ 20 billion for economic development .
In a stunning article on aid to Pakistan during the Bush administration , Craig Cohen and Derek Chollet demonstrated the disastrous nature of this militarized approach - even before the tottering Musharraf regime &apos;s latest crackdown .
They show that even though Pakistan faces huge problems of poverty , population , and environment , 75 % of the $ 10 billion in US aid has gone to the Pakistani military , ostensibly to reimburse Pakistan for its contribution to the &quot; war on terror , &quot; and to help it buy F @-@ 16s and other weapons systems .
Another 16 % went straight to the Pakistani budget , no questions asked .
That left less than 10 % for development and humanitarian assistance .
Annual US aid for education in Pakistan has amounted to just $ 64 million , or $ 1.16 per school @-@ aged child .
The authors note that &quot; the strategic direction for Pakistan was set early by a narrow circle at the top of the Bush administration and has been largely focused on the war effort rather than on Pakistan &apos;s internal situation . &quot; They also emphasize that &quot; US engagement with Pakistan is highly militarized and centralized , with very little reaching the vast majority of Pakistanis . &quot;
They quote George Bush as saying , &quot; When &#91; Musharraf &#93; looks me in the eye and says ... there won &apos;t be a Taliban and won &apos;t be al @-@ Qaeda , I believe him , you know ? &quot;
This militarized approach is leading the world into a downward spiral of violence and conflict .
Each new US weapons system &quot; sold &quot; or given to the region increases the chances of expanded war and further military coups , and to the chance that the arms will be turned on the US itself .
None of it helps to address the underlying problems of poverty , child mortality , water scarcity , and lack of livelihoods in places like Pakistan &apos;s Northwest Frontier Province , Sudan &apos;s Darfur region , or Somalia .
These places are bulging with people facing a tightening squeeze of insufficient rainfall and degraded pasturelands .
Naturally , many join radical causes .
The Bush administration fails to recognize these fundamental demographic and environmental challenges , that $ 800 billion of security spending won &apos;t bring irrigation to Afghanistan , Pakistan , Sudan , and Somalia , and therefore won &apos;t bring peace .
Instead of seeing real people in crisis , they see caricatures , a terrorist around every corner .
A more peaceful world will be possible only when Americans and others begin to see things through the eyes of their supposed enemies , and realize that today &apos;s conflicts , having resulted from desperation and despair , can be solved through economic development rather than war .
We will have peace when we heed the words of President John F. Kennedy , who said , a few months before his death , &quot; For , in the final analysis , our most basic common link is that we all inhabit this small planet .
We all breathe the same air .
We all cherish our children &apos;s future . And we are all mortal . &quot;
America &apos;s Financial Leviathan
BERKELEY - In 1950 , finance and insurance in the United States accounted for 2.8 % of GDP , according to US Department of Commerce estimates .
By 1960 , that share had grown to 3.8 % of GDP , and reached 6 % of GDP in 1990 .
Today , it is 8.4 % of GDP , and it is not shrinking .
The Wall Street Journal &apos;s Justin Lahart reports that the 2010 share was higher than the previous peak share in 2006 .
Lahart goes on to say that growth in the finance @-@ and @-@ insurance share of the economy has &quot; not , by and large , been a bad thing .... Deploying capital to the places where it can be best used helps the economy grow ... &quot;
But if the US were getting good value from the extra 5.6 % of GDP that it is now spending on finance and insurance - the extra $ 750 billion diverted annually from paying people who make directly useful goods and provide directly useful services - it would be obvious in the statistics .
At a typical 5 % annual real interest rate for risky cash flows , diverting that large a share of resources away from goods and services directly useful this year is a good bargain only if it boosts overall annual economic growth by 0.3 % - or 6 % per 25 @-@ year generation .
There have been many shocks to the US economy over the past couple of generations , and many factors have added to or subtracted from economic growth .
But it is not obvious that the US economy today would be 6 % less productive if it had had the finance @-@ insurance system of 1950 rather than the one that prevailed during the past 20 years .
There are five ways that an economy gains from a well @-@ functioning finance @-@ insurance system .
First , people are no longer as vulnerable to the effects of fires , floods , medical disasters , unemployment , business collapses , sectoral shifts , and so forth , because a well @-@ working finance @-@ insurance system diversifies and thus dissipates some risks , and deals with others by matching those who fear risk with those who can comfortably bear it .
While it might be true that America &apos;s current finance @-@ insurance system better distributes risk in some sense , it is hard to see how that could be the case , given the experience of investors in equities and housing over the past two decades .
Second , well @-@ functioning financial systems match large , illiquid investment projects with the relatively small pools of money contributed by individual savers who value liquidity highly .
There has been one important innovation over the past two generations : businesses can now issue high @-@ yield bonds .
But , given the costs of the bankruptcy process , it has never been clear why a business would rather issue high @-@ yield bonds ( besides gaming the tax system ) , or why investors would rather buy them than take an equity stake .
Third , improved opportunities to borrow allow one to spend more now , when one is poor , and save more later , when one is rich .
Households are certainly much more able to borrow , thanks to home @-@ equity loans , credit @-@ card balances , and payday loans .
But what are they really buying ?
Many are not buying the ability to spend when they are poor and save when they are rich , but instead appear to be buying postponement of the &quot; unpleasant financial retrenchment &quot; talk with the other members of their household .
And that is not something you want to buy .
Fourth , we have seen major improvements in the ease of transactions .
But , while electronic transactions have made a great deal of financial life much easier , this should have been accompanied by a decrease , not an increase , in the finance share of GDP , just as automated switching in telecommunications led to a decrease in the number of telephone switchboard operators per phone call .
Indeed , the operations of those parts of the financial system most closely related to technological improvements have slimmed down markedly : consider what has happened to the checking operations of the regional Federal Reserve Banks .
Finally , better finance should mean better corporate governance .
Since shareholder democracy does not provide effective control over entrenched , runaway , self @-@ indulgent management , finance has a potentially powerful role to play in ensuring that corporate managers work in the interest of shareholders .
And a substantial change has indeed occurred over the past two generations : CEOs focus much more attention than they used to on pleasing the stock market , and this is likely to be a good thing .
Overall , however , it remains disturbing that we do not see the obvious large benefits , at either the micro or macro level , in the US economy &apos;s efficiency that would justify spending an extra 5.6 % of GDP every year on finance and insurance .
Lahart cites the conclusion of New York University &apos;s Thomas Philippon that today &apos;s US financial sector is outsized by two percentage points of GDP .
And it is very possible that Philippon &apos;s estimate of the size of the US financial sector &apos;s hypertrophy is too small .
Why has the devotion of a great deal of skill and enterprise to finance and insurance sector not paid obvious economic dividends ?
There are two sustainable ways to make money in finance : find people with risks that need to be carried and match them with people with unused risk @-@ bearing capacity , or find people with such risks and match them with people who are clueless but who have money .
Are we sure that most of the growth in finance stems from a rising share of financial professionals who undertake the former rather than the latter ?
America &apos;s Fiscal Isolationism
DENVER - Patience might be a virtue , but not necessarily when it comes to American foreign policy .
Consider &quot; the long war , &quot; a bold concept embraced a few years ago to describe the continuing struggle against terrorism , the grudging progress that could realistically be achieved , and the enormous financial burden that it would impose for years to come .
It was also a realpolitik acknowledgement of the setbacks to be expected along the way ( the &quot; slog , &quot; as then Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld put it ) .
Above all , the term was an effort to communicate to Americans , accustomed to waging war with speed and decisiveness ( and insistent on it since Vietnam ) , the long @-@ term sacrifice and commitment needed to win a war of survival .
Its proponents also understood that the war would not be limited to weapons , but would need to be a sustained effort , involving , as they put it , the &quot; whole of government , &quot; with civilian agencies marshaled behind military - or paramilitary - objectives .
Daunting as the effort would be , its advocates assumed a sustainable political consensus to support it .
After all , the United States had been attacked .
Today , that consensus is unraveling as America &apos;s politicians wrestle with a federal budget that is itself turning into a long war - one with its own casualties .
The battle lines in this struggle suggest that there is little accord among political elites for any spending , let alone for a long war with far @-@ flung commitments .
As a result , basic assumptions are being questioned at every turn .
Indeed , the current budget war seems to be reopening old divisions about America &apos;s view of itself and the world .
The outcome is far from certain , but even isolationism , a perennial American malady , seems to be making a comeback .
Isolationism is a familiar refrain in US foreign policy among those elements of the right that consider the US too good for the world , as well as among those on the left who consider America a destructive global force .
But this time , as perhaps never before , a bipartisan isolationist impulse is being driven by the budget .
America &apos;s fiscal crisis is profound , and it is not just about numbers .
As the emotions in Washington today suggest , the aversion to tax increases runs far deeper than concern about their effect on current economic performance and job growth .
In part , it represents a fundamental - some would say fundamentalist - view that taxes are to government what a bottle of whisky is to an alcoholic .
Government , as Ronald Reagan told us , is the problem , not the solution .
That message is bad news for American diplomacy .
The linkage between politicians &quot; unwillingness to fund domestic programs and the imperiled commitment to &quot; the long war &quot; might elude those in US foreign @-@ policy circles , but it is not lost on the rest of the country .
Opinion surveys suggest that Americans want to maintain many of the &quot; discretionary &quot; domestic programs - schools , hospitals , transportation infrastructure , recreational parks , etc . - that are now on the chopping block in budget negotiations .
In places like rural El Paso County , on the eastern plains of Colorado , far from the federal budget debate &apos;s epicenter , spending cuts are the order of the day .
School districts are increasing class sizes as they shed teachers , as well as deferring maintenance projects and curtailing the school @-@ bus service .
These cuts are having a very real and immediate impact on El Paso County &apos;s residents .
Can they , and other Americans who are losing vital services , really be expected to rise above it all and support funding to build new schools in Afghanistan ?
Not only are America &apos;s public schools starting to look second @-@ rate , but so is its infrastructure , which had long been a source of national pride .
How many travelers nowadays can fail to note the difference between Asia &apos;s new , efficient airports and the aging , clogged antiques in some major US cities ?
The budget war is not producing any consensus on fixing America &apos;s infrastructure , but it is beginning to produce a view that Afghanistan and Pakistan are far from being core US national interests .
Why , people ask , are schools and roads in Afghanistan and Iraq more important than those in Colorado or California ? At one point in 2008 , the US military picked up the cost of transporting a tiger for the Baghdad zoo .
When was the last time the US government did that for a US zoo ( outside of Washington , of course ) ?
How this debate sorts itself out will have profound consequences for how America conducts itself in the world .
But it might also take a toll on how the world reacts to America &apos;s fastest @-@ growing export : unsolicited advice .
Countries take others &quot; advice for many reasons .
Sometimes they respect the adviser &apos;s wisdom and insights ( fairly rare in diplomacy ) .
Or they might fear the consequences of not taking the advice ( an offer one cannot refuse , so to speak ) .
Or , as is true of many of America &apos;s diplomatic transactions , accepting advice could open the way to a better relationship and to additional assistance .
In short , diplomacy - and US diplomacy , in particular - often involves money .
But what if there is no money to offer ?
What if Americans , tired of the budget cuts in their neighborhoods , refuse to support funds even for &quot; the long war &quot; ?
At that point , senior US officials might well arrive in a country , offer advice , and find that nobody is bothering to listen .
America &apos;s Free @-@ Trade Abdication
NEW YORK - The indifference and apathy that one finds in Washington from both the Congress and President Barack Obama on the Doha Round of world trade talks , and the alarm and concern expressed by statesmen elsewhere over the languishing negotiations , mark the end of the post @-@ 1945 era of American leadership on multilateral free trade .
Evidence of anxiety outside the US has been clear to everyone for almost a year .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel and British Prime Minister David Cameron were concerned enough to join with Turkey &apos;s President Abdullah Gül and Indonesia &apos;s President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono in appointing Peter Sutherland and me as Co @-@ Chairs of a High @-@ Level Trade Experts Group in November 2010 .
We held a prestigious Panel at Davos with these leaders in January 2011 , where , on the occasion of our Interim Report , we gave full @-@ throated support to concluding Doha .
But there was no response from the US government .
In September , former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown , former Spanish Prime Minister Felipe González , and former Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo reminded G @-@ 20 leaders that in November 2009 , at their first meeting in London , they had expressed &quot; a commitment to ... conclude the Round in 2010 . &quot;
And , two weeks ago , the UN met again on the Millennium Development Goals ( MDGs ) .
Goal 8 is about instruments such as trade and aid , and MDG 8A commits the UN member nations to &quot; &#91; d &#93; evelop further an open , rule @-@ based , predictable , non @-@ discriminatory trading and financial system . &quot;
But , while practically every country today has embraced preferential Free Trade Agreements , the recent leader in this proliferation is the US .
There , Congress and the president apparently have plenty of time to discuss bilateral FTAs with South Korea , Colombia , and Panama , as well as the regional Trans @-@ Pacific Partnership ( TPP ) , but none for negotiating the non @-@ discriminatory Doha Round , which is languishing in its tenth year of talks .
Indeed , it is notable that , while Obama &apos;s State of the Union address in January 2010 at least mentioned Doha , his address in January 2011 did not .
Obama confined himself to promoting the pending bilateral agreements with Colombia and other emerging @-@ market countries .
Obama &apos;s regrettable retreat from support for the Doha Round is the result of many factors and fallacies .
These were highlighted in an &quot; Open Letter to Obama &quot; that I organized and released , over the signatures of nearly 50 of today &apos;s most influential trade experts worldwide , urging a presidential shift in policy towards Doha .
America &apos;s president is captive to the country &apos;s labor unions , who buy the false narrative that trade with poor countries is increasing the ranks of the poor in the US by driving down wages .
In fact , however , there is plenty of evidence for the rival narrative that rapid and deep labor @-@ saving technological change is what is putting pressure on wages , and that imports of cheap labor @-@ intensive goods that US workers consume are actually offsetting that distress .
Again , Washington lobbyists have bought into the absurd claim of trade experts such as Fred Bergsten that the gain from Doha , as it stands now , is a paltry $ 7 billion or so annually .
This ignores the far greater losses that a failed Doha Round would entail , for example , by undermining the World Trade Organization &apos;s credibility as the principal guarantor of rules @-@ based trade , and by leaving trade liberalization entirely to discriminatory liberalization under preferential bilateral agreements .
Again , someone needs to tell Obama that imports create jobs , too , and that his emphasis on promoting US exports alone is bad economics .
Most of all , Obama is badly served on trade by his senior colleagues .
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton , for example , was opposed to trade liberalization when she ran against Obama for president , and advocated a &quot; pause &quot; in free @-@ trade negotiations .
She also misinterpreted the great economist Paul Samuelson as a protectionist , when he said nothing of the kind .
She has never recanted .
Likewise , now that Warren Buffett is considered to be Obama &apos;s most trusted economic adviser , it is worth recalling that back in 2003 he produced the astonishing prescription that the best way to reduce the US trade deficit was to allow no more imports than it could finance from its export earnings .
An amused and alarmed Samuelson drew my attention to this nutty idea .
While Buffett &apos;s prescription of higher taxes for America &apos;s wealthy is entirely desirable , will Obama realize that a genius in one area may be a dunce in another ?
What we need today is for the world &apos;s leading statesmen to stop pussyfooting and to unite in nudging Obama towards a successful conclusion of the Doha Round .
That alone would provide the counterweight to the forces that pull him in the wrong direction .
It is still not too late .
America &apos;s G @-@ Zero Moment
NEW YORK - The 2008 financial crisis marked the end of the global order as we knew it .
In advance of the upcoming G @-@ 8 summit , it is impossible to overlook the fact that , for the first time in seven decades , the United States cannot drive the international agenda or provide global leadership on all of today &apos;s most pressing problems .
Indeed , the US has trimmed its presence abroad by refusing to contribute to a eurozone bailout , intervene in Syria , or use force to contain Iran &apos;s nuclear breakout ( despite strong Israeli support ) .
President Barack Obama officially ended the war in Iraq , and is withdrawing US troops from Afghanistan at a pace constrained only by the need to save face .
America is handing off the leadership baton - even if no other country or group of countries is willing or able to grasp it .
In short , US foreign policy may be as active as ever , but it is downsizing and becoming more exacting about its priorities .
As a result , many global challenges - climate change , trade , resource scarcity , international security , cyber @-@ warfare , and nuclear proliferation , to name a few - are bound to loom larger .
Welcome to the G @-@ Zero world , a more turbulent , uncertain environment in which coordination on global policy issues falls by the wayside .
Paradoxically , this new environment , though daunting , is less troublesome for the US ; in fact , it provides fresh opportunities for the US to capitalize on its unique position .
The G @-@ Zero world is not all bad for the US - if it plays its cards right .
Many residual strengths take on greater importance in such a world , and America remains the world &apos;s only true superpower and its largest economy - still more than twice the size of China &apos;s .
Its defense expenditures represent nearly half the world total , and exceed those of the next 17 countries combined .
The dollar remains the world &apos;s reserve currency , and investors &quot; scramble into US government debt at every peak in the crisis since 2008 has underscored America &apos;s safe @-@ haven status ( even in crises that America caused ) .
Likewise , the US continues to lead in entrepreneurship , research and development , higher education , and technological innovation .
Moreover , it is now the world &apos;s largest natural @-@ gas producer and calorie exporter , which has reduced its vulnerability to price shocks or food shortages .
No country rivals America &apos;s promotion of the rule of law , liberal democracy , transparency , and free enterprise .
While other countries certainly support these values , only the US has been willing , healthy , and big enough to ensure that they prevail .
So , as America curtails its global leadership , it will find itself in more demand .
Consider Asia , for example . &amp; nbsp ; As China &apos;s economic importance and regional influence grows , its neighbors are seeking to deepen ties with the US .
Japan , Australia , Indonesia , and Taiwan have all recently closed trade and security @-@ related deals with the US .
Even Burma has gotten on board , resuming diplomatic engagement with the US while trying to work its way out of China &apos;s shadow .
In other words , in a G @-@ Zero world , an increasingly aggressive global environment makes the US all the more appealing to countries seeking to hedge their bets . &amp; nbsp ; As a result , the US has an opportunity to act more precisely in its own interests .
Supplying less leadership allows the US to weigh opportunity costs before taking action , and to select the issues and circumstances that suit it the best . &amp; nbsp ; In this environment , military intervention in Libya does not necessitate the same in Syria .
The extent to which the US will capitalize on these opportunities remains to be seen .
In fact , America &apos;s short @-@ term advantages pose the biggest obstacle to its long @-@ term outlook .
Call this the &quot; safe @-@ haven curse &quot; : &amp; nbsp ; as long as the US remains the safest port in any storm , it faces no immediate pressure to address its weaknesses .
For example , for all of the hand @-@ wringing about America &apos;s national debt , investors will continue to loan the US money .
Over the long term , however , US policymakers must make steady progress in restoring confidence in the nation &apos;s fiscal health by cutting politically sacred programs like social security , Medicare , and defense .
Officials will have to put aside short @-@ term motives and party orthodoxy to bolster America &apos;s aging infrastructure , reform its education and immigration systems , and pursue long @-@ term fiscal consolidation .
America &apos;s advantages in the G @-@ Zero world afford it the chance to invest in the future .
But , by cushioning against sufficiently calamitous risks , the same advantages allow the US to procrastinate .
American politicians need to recognize the new G @-@ Zero reality and rebuild America &apos;s domestic sources of strength , even if only incrementally . &amp; nbsp ; If they do , the US will have the vigor and flexibility to shape the next world order .
America &apos;s political system usually works well in crises . &amp; nbsp ; But , thanks to its residual advantages in a leaderless world , the US need not rely on a crisis to precipitate action .
It need only seize the G @-@ Zero moment .
Obama &apos;s Underachieving Foreign Policy
PARIS - To evaluate an American president &apos;s foreign @-@ policy performance after one term is challenging , given the complex diplomatic and strategic environment and significant domestic constraints that confront every US president .
Nevertheless , in advance of November &apos;s presidential election , it is important to distinguish the forces that have shaped Barack Obama &apos;s foreign policy , and to assess his handling of them .
Obama kept his promise to withdraw American forces from Iraq during his first term .
But the move proved to be a strategic defeat , given that it significantly diminished the United States &quot; political influence in Iraq .
Indeed , Prime Minister Nouri al @-@ Maliki &apos;s government is becoming increasingly allied with Iran .
Obama , who opposed the Iraq war , should not be blamed for current circumstances there .
But he was unable to improve the situation or help Iraq &apos;s Shias and Sunnis reach a political compromise .
In contrast , Obama expanded the war in Afghanistan - which he considered to be a war of necessity - and put the Taliban on the defensive .
But the US will begin to withdraw troops after 2014 , without having defined a political solution in line with its interests .
Meanwhile , America &apos;s strategic partnership with Pakistan , where Obama won a significant symbolic victory by eliminating Osama bin Laden , is in tatters .
US @-@ Pakistan relations have regressed to their level before September 11 , 2001 , with mutual distrust minimizing cooperation .
In fact , in all of the strategic challenges to US security that Obama inherited - Iran , North Korea , Iraq , Afghanistan , Pakistan , and the Israeli @-@ Palestinian conflict - he has made virtually no significant political gains .
Notwithstanding Obama &apos;s skillful response to the Arab Spring - the only strategic surprise that he has faced as president - his credibility in the Muslim world has steadily declined .
He has failed to deliver on the key promise of his Cairo speech in 2009 : &quot; to seek a new beginning between the United States and Muslims around the world . &quot;
Moreover , Obama &apos;s efforts to improve relations with Russia - embodied in the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty ( START ) - did not lead to a genuine &quot; reset &quot; in bilateral ties , largely because an increasingly Soviet @-@ style Russian leadership distrusts a US establishment that still regards Russia as a foe .
And the US @-@ China relationship has deteriorated , with America seeking to manage China &apos;s rise strategically - for example , through regional trade agreements and an enhanced military presence in Asia .
On multilateral issues , Obama &apos;s performance is equally unimpressive .
After committing to a 17 % reduction of greenhouse @-@ gas emissions by 2020 - and despite his declaration that he would not tolerate inaction in this area - he simply stopped raising the issue after the Republicans &quot; sweeping victory in the November 2010 mid @-@ term elections .
Likewise , domestic pressure has caused Obama to neglect trade issues .
The US is largely responsible for the failure of the Doha Round of global trade talks .
Obama &apos;s one significant foreign @-@ policy breakthrough has been to release the US from the grip of the &quot; global war on terror . &quot;
Jettisoning the Manichean rhetoric of that &quot; war &quot; allowed the US to regain the political legitimacy that former President George W. Bush had lost , without diminishing its strategic credibility .
After the Vietnam War , Jimmy Carter hoped to make a break with established US policy .
But his administration &apos;s actions - including serious blunders in Iran and Afghanistan - made the US appear weak and indecisive .
While Obama &apos;s policies have not weakened America &apos;s international standing , they also have not led to achievements comparable to Richard Nixon &apos;s rapprochement with China , largely owing to what might be described as the dogmatic pragmatism that underlies them - an emphasis on avoiding the worst , rather than on striving for the best .
Moreover , Obama has been confronted with significant constraints , including the global economic crisis , domestic political polarization , a hostile Congress , and the rise of emerging powers that need the US but are unwilling to accept its dominance .
As a result , he has failed to change strategic realities by , for example , reconciling America &apos;s broader interests with those of Iran ( a declared enemy ) , Pakistan ( a &quot; frenemy &quot; ) , and Israel ( a key ally ) .
To be sure , Obama faces a more complex diplomatic and strategic environment than Nixon faced in the 1970 &quot; s .
Unstable coalitions in Iran prevent any substantive negotiations between the two countries , while political fragmentation in Pakistan significantly hinders US policy there .
And the fragility of Israel &apos;s ruling coalition , combined with strong congressional support for Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu , makes it difficult to influence the country &apos;s policies , despite Israel &apos;s significant impact on US strategy in the Arab world .
But Obama has also struggled to define the terms of a possible grand bargain .
Any agreement with Iran would require consent from Israel and the Gulf countries , which do not share the same objectives .
And the US cannot reach an accord with Pakistan without India &apos;s consent , which America would be unable to force , especially given that it relies on India to counterbalance China &apos;s growing clout in Asia .
With Israel , the terms are ostensibly simpler : in exchange for a stronger US security guarantee , Israel would accept the establishment of a Palestinian state based on the 1967 borders .
But Israel is also a crucial domestic political topic in the US ; indeed , any distancing from Israel is unacceptable to most Americans .
While Obama &apos;s first term could not be called a foreign @-@ policy disappointment , his achievements - although not trivial - have been limited .
If he wins a second term , he is likely to find it increasingly difficult to win by playing not to lose .
America &apos;s Groucho Marxists
LONDON - Groucho Marx has always been my favorite Marxist .
One of his jokes goes to the heart of the failure of the ideology - the dogmatic religion - inflicted on our poor world by his namesake , Karl .
&quot; Who are you going to believe , &quot; Groucho once asked , &quot; me , or your own eyes ? &quot; For hundreds of millions of citizens in Communist @-@ run countries in the twentieth century , the &quot; me &quot; in the question was a dictator or oligarchy ruling with totalitarian or authoritarian powers .
It didn &apos;t matter what you could see with your own eyes .
You had to accept what you were told the world was like .
Reality was whatever the ruling party said it was .
The designated successor to Mao Zedong in China , Hua Guofeng , raised this attitude to an art form .
He was known as a &quot; whateverist . &quot; The Party and people should faithfully follow whatever Mao instructed them to do .
Groucho posed two insuperable problems for the &quot; whateverists &quot; of communism . First , your own eyes and your reason would surely tell you before long that the communist idyll - the withering away of the state and the triumph over need - would never come .
Communism , like the horizon , was always just beyond reach .
It would be interesting to know how many of those at Beijing &apos;s Central Party School - the party &apos;s main educational institute - believe that the Chinese state is about to wither away , or ever will .
The second application of Groucho &apos;s question was that citizens of most Communist countries soon learned that the loss of freedom that they suffered was not compensated by greater prosperity or a higher quality of life .
The more that Russians , Poles , Czechs , and others saw of the life @-@ style in the Western democracies , the more they questioned their own system .
In his magisterial book
So , in the political sphere , reason has trumped both faith in an unattainable goal and self @-@ delusion about the consequences of its pursuit .
Authoritarian party @-@ states , such as China and Vietnam , survive , but not through commitment to communism .
Their legitimacy depends on their ability to deliver economic growth through state @-@ managed capitalism .
Democracies , of course , allow people to use their reason to make choices based on the evidence of their own eyes .
When you don &apos;t like a government , you can turn the rascals out without overthrowing the whole system .
Change can be made in an evolutionary , rather than a revolutionary , way .
But no one should think that debate in democracies is always based on reason , or that democracy necessarily makes people more rational .
Sometimes reason does prevail .
This is what appeared to happen in the last Indian election , and the election in the United States of President Barack Obama was also plainly a supremely rational moment .
But reason does not seem to be getting much of a hearing during the current health @-@ care debate in the US .
Outsiders , even admirers , have often wondered how the most globalized country in the world - a continent inhabited by people from every land - can be so irrationally insular on some issues .
We scratch our heads about America &apos;s gun laws .
We were astonished during President George W. Bush &apos;s first term at the administration &apos;s hostility to science , reflected in its stance on climate change and Charles Darwin &apos;s theory of evolution .
The opposition to health @-@ care reform is a similar cause of bemusement .
We know that despite its great wealth - and its groundbreaking medical research - America &apos;s health @-@ care system is awful .
It is hugely expensive .
Its costs overwhelm workplace health @-@ insurance schemes .
The poor go unprotected .
Too many of the sick are untreated .
Overall health statistics are worse than those in comparable countries .
Yet Obama &apos;s attempts to reform health care have run into hysterical opposition .
His proposals would lead , it is said , to the state murdering the elderly .
They would introduce Soviet communism into the US - just like what apparently exists in Canada and Britain , with their state @-@ sponsored health systems .
Communism in Toronto and London ?
Or just better , cheaper , more reliable health care for all ?
Reason seems to be having a hard time of it in the US just now .
Maybe it &apos;s no coincidence that Groucho Marx was an American citizen .
But surely the way a society cares for its sick and needy and elderly is sufficiently important to deserve serious and thoughtful argument based on what we really can see with our own eyes rather than on uninformed partisan prejudice .
America &apos;s Growth in the Decade Ahead
CAMBRIDGE - Although the strength of the US economy in 2010 remains uncertain , it is important to look ahead to its likely performance in the coming decade .
The rise of GDP over the next ten years will reflect the very positive effect of the eventual recovery from the current deep downturn , combined with a below @-@ trend rise in the economy &apos;s potential output at full employment .
When I add up all the key components , I conclude that the coming decade &apos;s annual growth is likely to be about 1.9 % , roughly the same as the average rate over the past ten years .
To understand why , let &apos;s start with the cyclical recovery .
I &apos;ll make the optimistic but plausible assumption that the economy will fully recover over the next decade , lowering the unemployment rate from the current 10 % to about 5 % .
That return to full employment will also reduce the number of people who , discouraged that no jobs exist for those with their skills , have stopped looking for work ( and are therefore not counted as unemployed ) .
That cyclical recovery of employment will cause GDP to rise by about 13 % over the next decade , or an average of 1.2 % per year .
That represents a substantial turnaround from the past decade , when the unemployment rate rose from 4 % to 10 % and the labor @-@ force participation rate fell from 67 % to 65 % , reducing GDP by about 1.6 % per year .
The full rise in GDP will combine the 1.2 % -per @-@ year cyclical rebound with the increase in potential full @-@ employment GDP .
The growth of potential GDP will reflect the structural rise of the labor force , the increase in the capital stock , and the improvement in multifactor productivity ( i.e. , the change in the output that results from improvements in technology rather than from increases in labor and capital . )
Although there are uncertainties about each of these components of growth , their performance in the coming years is unlikely to be as good as it was in recent decades .
Slower population growth and a demographically driven decline in the labor @-@ force participation rate will reduce employment growth .
Indeed , the US Department of Labor recently predicted that the labor force will grow by only 8 % between 2008 and 2018 , down from 12 % in the previous ten years .
That growth of the labor force will raise potential GDP by only about 0.5 % per year .
Although the capital stock will benefit from a higher household saving rate , the increase will be offset by more government &quot; dissaving &quot; as budget deficits remain high .
A reluctance of foreign investors to keep accumulating dollar assets will cause a smaller capital inflow from the rest of the world .
Finally , the change in potential GDP will depend on what happens to the rate of change of multifactor productivity - that is , the change in output that results from changes in technology and production processes .
According to the OECD , US multifactor productivity rose at a relatively stable annual rate of about 0.75 % from 1985 to 2000 , and then jumped to 1.4 % per year from 2001 through 2008 .
There is no way to know whether the rate of growth of multifactor productivity will remain at its current level or will revert to the pre @-@ 2000 pace .
Assuming slower growth in the labor force than in the past decade , no rise in productivity due to capital accumulation , and a decline in multifactor productivity growth to its pre @-@ 2000 average implies that annual potential GDP growth will be only 1.4 % .
Combining these conservative assumptions about potential GDP with the effect of the cyclical rebound - an estimated 1.2 % annual rise in real GDP - would produce real GDP growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % , which would be significantly higher than the 1.9 % rate in the decade ending in 2009 .
But not all of the extra output produced over the next decade will remain in the US .
If the trade deficit is reduced by 3 % of GDP between now and the end of the decade , the implied rise in exports and decline in imports would reduce output available for US consumption and investment by about 0.3 % per year .
The effect of a decline in the dollar over the coming decade could be equally important .
If the real trade @-@ weighted value of the dollar falls by 25 % over the coming decade , and the full effect of that dollar decline is reflected in import prices , the increased cost of imports would reduce the growth of US real incomes by about 0.4 % a year .
These two international effects would leave annual net growth of real goods and services available for US consumption and investment - both domestically produced and imported - at just 1.9 % , implying no change compared to the past decade .
During those years , the rise in the volume of net imports just balanced the effect of the dollar &apos;s fall on the total cost of imports .
As a result , the rise in the real value of goods and services available for US consumption and investment was the same as the rise of real GDP .
There are , of course , serious downside risks to this forecast , especially if the fiscal deficit remains high or adverse tax policies depress the rise in productivity .
The government should take the weak ten @-@ year projection as a warning and a reason to devote policies to reducing fiscal deficits and strengthening incentives for growth .
America &apos;s Houses of Cards
There are times when being proven right brings no pleasure .
For several years , I argued that America &apos;s economy was being supported by a housing bubble that had replaced the stock market bubble of the 1990 &quot; s .
But no bubble can expand forever .
With middle @-@ class incomes in the United States stagnating , Americans could not afford ever more expensive homes .
As one of my predecessors as Chairman of the US President &apos;s Council of Economic Advisers famously put it , &quot; that which is not sustainable will not be sustained . &quot; Economists , as opposed to those who make their living gambling on stocks , make no claim to being able to predict when the day of reckoning will come , much less identifying the event that will bring down the house of cards .
But the patterns are systematic , with consequences that unfold gradually , and painfully , over time .
There is a macro @-@ story and a micro @-@ story here .
The macro @-@ story is simple , but dramatic .
Some , observing the crash of the sub @-@ prime mortgage market , say , &quot; Don &apos;t worry , it is only a problem in the real estate sector . &quot; But this overlooks the key role that the housing sector has played in the US economy recently , with direct investment in real estate and money taken out of houses through refinancing mortgages accounting for two @-@ thirds to three @-@ quarters of growth over the last six years .
Booming home prices gave Americans the confidence , and the financial wherewithal , to spend more than their income .
America &apos;s household savings rate was at levels not seen since the Great Depression , either negative or zero .
With higher interest rates depressing housing prices , the game is over .
As America moves to , say , a 4 % savings rate ( still small by normal standards ) , aggregate demand will weaken , and with it , the economy .
The micro @-@ story is more dramatic .
Record @-@ low interest rates in 2001 , 2002 and 2003 did not lead Americans to invest more - there was already excess capacity .
Instead , easy money stimulated the economy by inducing households to refinance their mortgages , and to spend some of their capital .
It is one thing to borrow to make an investment , which strengthens balance sheets ; it is another thing to borrow to finance a vacation or a consumption binge .
But this is what Alan Greenspan encouraged Americans to do .
When normal mortgages did not prime the pump enough , he encouraged them to take out variable @-@ rate mortgages - at a time when interest rates had nowhere to go but up .
Predatory lenders went further , offering negative amortization loans , so the amount owed went up year after year .
Sometime in the future , payments would rise , but borrowers were told , again , not to worry : house prices would rise faster , making it easy to refinance with another negative amortization loan .
The only way ( in this view ) not to win was to sit on the sidelines .
All of this amounted to a human and economic disaster in the making .
Now reality has hit : newspapers report cases of borrowers whose mortgage payments exceed their entire income .
Globalization implies that America &apos;s mortgage problem has worldwide repercussions .
The first run on a bank occurred against the British mortgage lender Northern Rock .
America managed to pass off bad mortgages worth hundreds of billions of dollars to investors ( including banks ) around the world .
They buried the bad mortgages in complicated instruments , buried them so deep that no one knew exactly how badly they were impaired , and no one could calculate how to re @-@ price them quickly .
In the face of such uncertainty , markets froze .
Those in financial markets who believe in free markets have temporarily abandoned their faith .
For the greater good of all ( of course , it is never for their own selfish interests ) , they argued a bailout was necessary .
While the US Treasury and the IMF warned East Asian countries facing financial crises ten years ago against the risks of bail @-@ outs and told them not to raise their interest rates , the US ignored its own lectures about moral hazard effects , bought up billions in mortgages , and lowered interest rates .
But lower short @-@ term interest rates have led to higher medium @-@ term interest rates , which are more relevant for the mortgage market , perhaps because of increasing worries about inflationary pressures .
It may make sense for central banks ( or Fannie Mae , America &apos;s major government @-@ sponsored mortgage company ) to buy mortgage @-@ backed securities in order to help provide market liquidity .
But those from whom they buy them should provide a guarantee , so the public does not have to pay the price for their bad investment decisions .
Equity owners in banks should not get a free ride .
Securitization , with all of its advantages in sharing risk , has three problems that were not adequately anticipated .
While it meant that American banks were not hit as hard as they would otherwise , America &apos;s bad lending practices have had global effects .
Moreover , securitization contributed to bad lending : in the old days , banks that originated bad loans bore the consequences ; in the new world of securitization , the originators could pass the loans onto others .
( As economists would say , problems of asymmetric information have increased . )
In the old days , when borrowers found it impossible to make their payments , mortgages would be restructured ; foreclosures were bad for both the borrower and the lender .
Securitization made debt restructuring difficult , if not impossible .
It is the victims of predatory lenders who need government help .
With mortgages amounting to 95 % or more of the value of the house , debt restructuring will not be easy .
What is required is to give individuals with excessive indebtedness an expedited way to a fresh start - for example , a special bankruptcy provision allowing them to recover , say , 75 % of the equity they originally put into the house , with the lenders bearing the cost .
There are many lessons for America , and the rest of the world ; but among them is the need for greater financial sector regulation , especially better protection against predatory lending , and more transparency .
America &apos;s Interest @-@ Rate Puzzle
A great puzzle in today &apos;s world economy is the continued low level of long @-@ term real interest rates in the United States .
Conventional macroeconomists like me look at America &apos;s current @-@ account deficit , now running at 7 % of GDP , and know that such vast deficits are inevitably followed by large currency depreciations .
So we expect a substantial depreciation premium on US interest rates .
If the dollar falls 20 % more against the euro sometime in the next ten years , US long @-@ term interest rates should be two percentage points higher than euro rates .
If it falls 40 % against the yen sometime in the next ten years , US long @-@ term interest rates should be four percentage points higher than Japanese rates .
If it falls 60 % against China &apos;s currency , the yuan , sometime in the next ten years , US long @-@ term interest rates should be six percentage points higher than Chinese rates .
But we are not seeing signs of anything like this .
The puzzle is not only that long @-@ term rates are too low when viewed in the international context , but also that they are too low when viewed in America &apos;s domestic context .
The Bush administration continues to have no plans to sew up the veins it has opened with its medieval economic policy , which holds that bleeding revenue from the government cures all economic problems .
This means that unless America &apos;s domestic savings rate rises mightily - which it shows no signs of doing - and unless investment expenditure remains abnormally low for the rest of this decade , the supply of loanable funds to finance investment will soon be much less than demand when the current @-@ account deficit narrows to sustainable levels .
But when supply is less than demand , prices rise sharply .
In this case , the price of loanable funds is the real interest rate .
An expectation that interest rates will be high sometime in the next decade should mean high interest rates on long @-@ term bonds today .
Yet financial markets are not pricing dollar depreciation and a rise in long @-@ term US interest rates accordingly .
When we macroeconomists talk to our friends on Wall Street , we find that they don &apos;t view this as a puzzle at all .
On the contrary , they are puzzled about why we view the current low level of US long @-@ term interest rates as worrisome .
From their perspective , today &apos;s high demand for long @-@ term dollar @-@ denominated securities is easily explained : Asian central banks are buying in order to hold down their currencies , the US Treasury is borrowing short ( and thus not issuing that many long @-@ term securities ) , and US companies are not undertaking the kinds of investments that would lead them to issue many long @-@ term bonds .
But for every market mispricing there is a profit opportunity : if long @-@ term interest rates are , indeed , too low and long @-@ term bond prices too high , investors will short long @-@ term US bonds , park the money elsewhere , wait for bond prices to return to fundamentals , and then cover their short positions .
By doing so , they will push prices close to fundamentals today .
Wall Streeters , however , offer a counterargument : for any financial institution to , say , bet on the decline of the dollar against the yuan over the next five years in a serious , leveraged way is to put its survival at risk should the trades go wrong .
And trades do go wrong : remember the collapse of Long @-@ Term Capital Management .
The existence of large financial @-@ market actors that do not care about maximizing their profits magnifies the riskiness of the bets .
If , say , the Bank of China and the Federal Reserve decided to teach speculators a lesson by pushing the dollar &apos;s value relative to the yuan up by 20 % for a month , they could do so , bankrupting many financial institutions with short positions .
Similarly , any financial institution that bets on a sharp rise in long @-@ term interest rates over the next five years in a serious , leveraged way also puts its survival at risk .
For where should they park their money ?
Real estate rental yields and stock @-@ market payouts are low , and real estate and stock prices may well fall as much as or more than bond prices if interest rates spike .
Only businesses that can borrow long @-@ term now , lock in a low real interest rate , and invest in expanding their capacity can make the domestic bet that interest rates will rise .
But America &apos;s businesses see enough risk in the future to be wary of getting stuck with unutilized capacity .
Economists believe that market forces drive prices to fundamentals .
But we are not careful enough to distinguish situations in which equilibrium @-@ restoring forces are strong from those in which such forces are weak .
The dollar will fall and US long @-@ term interest rates will rise , but only when traders on Wall Street and elsewhere decide that holding dollars and long @-@ term US bonds is more risky in the short run .
When that happens , the long @-@ run future will be now .
America &apos;s Islamist Allies of Convenience
NEW DELHI - In just one decade , the United States has intervened militarily in three Muslim @-@ majority countries and overthrown their governments .
Now the same coalition of American liberal interventionists and neoconservatives that promoted those wars is pushing for punitive airstrikes in Syria without reflecting on how US policy has ended up strengthening Islamists and fostering anti @-@ Americanism .
Indeed , the last &quot; humanitarian intervention &quot; has clearly backfired , turning Libya into a breeding ground for transnational militants .
As the intense US debate about President Barack Obama &apos;s proposed use of military force highlights , the attack @-@ Syria push is not about upholding America &apos;s national interest .
Rather , the desire to protect US &quot; credibility &quot; has become the last refuge of those seeking yet another war in the wider Middle East .
If &quot; credibility &quot; were purged from the debate and the focus placed squarely on advancing long @-@ term US interests , it would become apparent that an attack on Syria might not yield even temporary geopolitical gains .
Beyond the short term , it would unleash major unintended consequences , potentially including an Iraq @-@ style &quot; soft &quot; partition of Syria and the creation of a haven for extremists stretching across much of Islamist @-@ controlled northern Syria and into the Sunni areas of Iraq .
Indeed , an attack would most likely increase America &apos;s reliance on unsavory Islamist rulers in countries ranging from Saudi Arabia and Qatar to Turkey and the United Arab Emirates .
Some Arab monarchs have pledged to bankroll the US attack - an investment that they would easily recover , given that the war talk has already increased oil prices .
Al Qaeda @-@ type groups already have gained ground in the Middle East and North Africa as an unintended byproduct of US policies , creating fertile conditions for stepped @-@ up international terrorism in the coming years .
The US invasion and occupation of Iraq , for example , created a major opening for Al Qaeda , whose affiliates now represent the Sunni struggle against the Shia @-@ dominated government .
Likewise , regime change in Libya aided the rise of Al Qaeda @-@ linked militants , leading to the killing in Benghazi of the US ambassador .
A system based on sharia ( Islamic law ) has been imposed , human @-@ rights abuses are legion , and cross @-@ border movement of weapons and militants has undermined the security of Libya &apos;s neighbors .
Meanwhile , America &apos;s support for the regimes in Yemen and Saudi Arabia has contributed to the rise of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula .
In parts of southern Yemen , an Al Qaeda affiliate , Ansar al @-@ Sharia , functions as a de facto government .
In Syria , where sizable chunks of territory are already under Islamist control and the pro @-@ Al Qaeda Al Nusra Front overshadows the US @-@ backed Free Syrian Army , the Obama administration is staring at the bitter harvest of its previous policy choices .
Airstrikes now would merely make matters worse by undercutting the FSA &apos;s grassroots legitimacy and aiding Islamist forces .
Farther east , the US wants an &quot; honorable &quot; exit from Afghanistan - the longest war in its history - through a peace deal with the Taliban , its main battlefield opponent .
In seeking to co @-@ opt the Taliban - an effort that has resulted in the Taliban establishing what amounts to a diplomatic mission in Doha , Qatar - the US is bestowing legitimacy on a thuggish militia that enforces medieval practices in the areas under its control .
America &apos;s dalliances with Islamist @-@ leaning political forces - and governments - have been guided by the notion that the cloak of Islam helps to protect the credibility of leaders who might otherwise be seen as foreign puppets .
That simply will not work , even in the short term .
On the contrary , until the Egyptian army removed him from the presidency , the Muslim Brotherhood &apos;s Mohamed Morsi was coming to be seen by many as America &apos;s man in Cairo .
In the long term , the US will gain nothing - and risk much - by continuing to back oil sheikhdoms that fund Muslim extremist groups and madrasas from the Philippines and India to South Africa and Venezuela .
By supporting Islamist rulers , the US is contributing to a trend evident from the Maghreb to the badlands of Afghanistan and Pakistan - Muslims killing Muslims .
American policy has also contributed to a growing conflict between Islamist and secular forces in Muslim countries .
This is best illustrated by Turkey , where Obama has ignored Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan &apos;s heavy @-@ handed efforts to annul free speech and turn himself into a twenty @-@ first @-@ century Sultan .
There and elsewhere , the US , motivated by the larger geopolitical goal of containing Shia Iran and its regional allies , has embraced Sunni rulers steeped in religious and political bigotry , even though they pose a transnational threat to the values of freedom and secularism .
Moreover , the clash within Islam is likely to be destabilizing regionally and counterproductive to the interests of the free world .
Against this background , Obama should heed the doctrine proposed in 1991 by General Colin Powell .
The Powell doctrine stipulates that the US should use military force only when a vital national @-@ security interest is at stake ; the strategic objective is clear and attainable ; the benefits are likely to outweigh the costs ; adverse consequences can be limited ; broad international and domestic support has been obtained ; and a plausible exit strategy is in place .
Given the US record since the doctrine was formulated , another criterion should be added : the main beneficiaries of military intervention are not America &apos;s mortal enemies .
Drone Wars
BRUSSELS - &quot; Sometime they &apos;ll give a war and nobody will come , &quot; the American poet Carl Sandburg wrote hopefully in 1936 .
His sentiment seems more apt than ever nowadays , but not because humanity has turned pacifistic .
Rather , wars are increasingly fought remotely , with drones - or unmanned aerial vehicles ( UAVs ) - doing the killing .
Under President Barack Obama , the number of drone strikes carried out by the United States has soared , with more than 300 UAV attacks reported in Pakistan alone .
In March 2011 , the US Air Force for the first time trained more pilots for drones than for any other purpose .
This raises serious ethical questions .
With no military personnel risking their lives , UAVs make it easier to kill , and to justify war operations to the public at home .
Moreover , a human being &apos;s reticence to kill is inversely related to the distance between attacker and target .
In the case of a pilot flying drones over Yemen by operating a joystick in Nevada , the threshold to pulling the trigger is dangerously low .
Killing is just a part of the job , to be followed by bowling , perhaps , or a quiet evening at home .
Meanwhile , the mere sound of drones terrorizes whole populations , indicating to enemies and civilians alike that they are being watched and might be attacked at any moment - which could well play into the hands of terrorist recruiters .
From a legal and human @-@ rights point of view , the US drone program is even more alarming .
After all , countries such as Pakistan , Yemen , and Somalia do not belong to declared war zones .
Outside the context of war , in turn , state killings are legal only if they prove absolutely necessary to save lives .
They must be conducted either in self @-@ defense after an attack , or in anticipatory self @-@ defense against an immediate threat , when taking time to discuss non @-@ lethal alternatives is not feasible .
More than a decade after September 11 , America &apos;s drone program does not fall into the first category of reactive self @-@ defense .
Likewise , there is no evidence that any presumed terrorist who was killed outside of official war zones in the last few years represented a threat so immediate to US citizens &quot; lives that preventive and premeditated killing was the only option .
Unless US leaders prove otherwise in every case , American UAV attacks in countries like Pakistan or Yemen should be called what they are : extrajudicial killings .
US State Department legal adviser Harold Koh disagrees , arguing that America is involved in a worldwide &quot; armed conflict with Al Qaeda , as well as the Taliban and associated forces . &quot;
So , Koh claims , drone attacks are part of a global war , fought both in declared war zones and non @-@ war countries ; therefore , they are legal .
But , even under this adventurous assumption , human @-@ rights issues arise .
The laws of war condone targeted killings only of &quot; combatants &quot; who &quot; directly participate in hostilities . &quot;
The killings must be proportionate , strategically necessary , and publicly justified .
Avoiding harm to civilians should be the top priority .
At the slightest sign of illegality , an investigation must be conducted , offenders prosecuted , and victims compensated .
The US drone program &apos;s legal basis is entirely unclear , however .
Given that most information about UAV activity is classified , it is impossible to know whether all drone targets directly participated in hostilities .
And , while the Obama administration &apos;s claim of zero or single @-@ digit civilian fatalities may be true according to the official definition , it rests on the premise that any military @-@ age male killed in a drone strike is a militant , unless intelligence posthumously proves otherwise .
A recent report by the law schools at Stanford University and New York University concludes that , in reality , civilian casualties in Pakistan may have accounted for up to 75 % of all UAV victims between 2008 and 2011 .
Others estimate a lower , but still alarming , rate of 30 % .
The legal obligation of proportionality is clearly being violated .
Accountability is also being flouted .
Drone operations are carried out by the Central Intelligence Agency , an organization whose activities are shrouded in secrecy .
And , unlike military personnel , CIA agents enjoy extensive immunity , undermining international legal standards .
Without increased transparency , to declare America &apos;s UAV campaign legal is impossible , both in the context of war and outside of armed conflict .
As long as the US keeps the rest of the world in the dark , illegal acts - including possible war crimes - may be committed with impunity .
Just as citizens worldwide are demanding increased economic and financial accountability , more pressure must be placed on the US to either prove that its drone activities are necessary and legal , or to stop them immediately .
Victims of UAV attacks , their families , and civil @-@ society groups have begun to speak out against America &apos;s questionable drone campaign , and to pursue legal action .
Others should feel encouraged to follow suit .
In the meantime , every drone strike will not only undermine human rights and international humanitarian law , but will also further widen a legal loophole that other governments and armed groups will not hesitate to exploit .
The US drone program does not make the world a safer place ; it creates an environment in which unlawful killings can happen virtually anywhere , at any time , violating the fundamental human right not to be arbitrarily deprived of one &apos;s life .
America &apos;s Locust Years
BERKELEY - It is hard right now to write about American political economy .
Nobody knows whether the debt @-@ ceiling tripwire will be evaded ; if so , how ; or what will happen if it is not .
If no deal to raise the debt ceiling is reached by August 3 , interest rates on United States Treasury bonds could spike , or they could remain stable , as investors decide they have other problems to worry about .
Or the US Federal Reserve , the Peoples Bank of China ( PBC ) , or both - or even some other body - could support the market .
Or interest rates could rise if people expect a much weaker global economy - and , in a weaker global economy with no inflation , investors should be holding more US Treasuries , not fewer .
Frankly , no one knows what legislative deal will be struck to raise the debt ceiling .
All we know as of this writing is that a deal would probably involve cuts in near @-@ term spending , meaning weaker growth and higher unemployment over the next 18 months .
And we can assume that it would be repealed and replaced by something else come January 2013 , either by a re @-@ elected President Barack Obama , or by a new , Republican president .
So , rather than talking about the US debt ceiling , let us think instead about all of the things that the debt @-@ ceiling impasse has prevented the US government from doing during the past six months - all of the useful policies that might have been debated and enacted , but were not .
The risks imposed by global warming , for example , have not gone away .
The sooner the world starts preparing to deal with those threats , the better .
Another six months should not be lost .
The employment @-@ to @-@ population ratio in the US remains flat - mired at the very low levels to which it fell during the recession .
With households desperately trying to rebuild their balance sheets , and with capital investment remarkably healthy , the only places to boost spending to restore capacity utilization and unemployment to normal levels are exports , government purchases , and construction investment .
But opportunities to pursue the necessary policies have not been grasped .
Here , too , another six months should not be lost .
Likewise , the US could have fulfilled its normal role as the conductor of the international economic orchestra .
It has not , even as the European Union continues to respond inadequately to its own slow @-@ moving solvency crises .
The mandarins of northern Europe continue to measure out a drip @-@ feed of support with coffee spoons .
Another six months have been lost .
America faces long @-@ run and short @-@ run problems : decaying infrastructure , weakening educational systems , and a dysfunctional health @-@ care system that produces sub @-@ standard outcomes at twice the cost of any other industrial country .
Solving any of these three problems would go a long way toward resolving the long @-@ run financing imbalance between current tax rates and America &apos;s long @-@ run social @-@ insurance promises that the debt @-@ ceiling debate &apos;s instigators supposedly want to address .
But the US government won &apos;t address them .
Six months that could have been spent boosting the long @-@ run growth potential of the American economy through infrastructure investment , educational reform , or an overhaul of health @-@ care financing - greatly easing America &apos;s long @-@ run deficit and debt dilemmas in the process - have been lost .
During the run @-@ up to World War II , Winston Churchill , speaking in Parliament , lamented &quot; the years that the locusts hath eaten &quot; - the period during which preparatory action to face the great crisis of his day ( the rise of Continental fascism ) could have been taken , but was not .
Over the past century - with the notable exception of the Great Depression - the US political system has been remarkably good at foreseeing crises long before they have happened , and at least setting the foundation for dealing with them when they have occurred .
But so far in the third millennium , this skill - or simply run of luck - has deserted the US .
My view is that the problem would fix itself easily if only the Republican Party of Dwight D. Eisenhower could stage a comeback ( though without Richard Nixon and Joseph McCarthy ) .
It is becoming increasingly clear , however , that the problem is one not only for the US , but for the rest of the world as well .
Since December 7 , 1941 , the world has in large part been able to rely on global governance by a somewhat @-@ competent hyperpower .
That America may be gone for good .
If it is , the world needs to develop other institutions for global management - and quickly .
America &apos;s Misplaced Deficit Complacency
CAMBRIDGE - The United States still faces a dangerous fiscal deficit , but one might not know it from the complacency that dominates budget discussions in Washington .
Regarded as an urgent problem until recently , the federal deficit is now being placed on the back burner of American politics .
The shift in thinking was triggered by the revised deficit forecasts recently published by the Congressional Budget Office , the independent technical agency responsible for advising Congress on budget issues .
According to the CBO &apos;s report , the US fiscal deficit will decline from 7 % of GDP in 2012 to 4 % in 2013 .
This reduction reflects the cuts in government spending on defense and non @-@ defense programs mandated by the budget &quot; sequester &quot; that took effect in March , as well as the rise in revenue caused by higher rates for income and payroll taxes since the end of 2012 .
More striking is the CBO &apos;s projection that the deficit will continue to decline rapidly , reaching just 2.1 % of GDP in 2015 , before rising gradually to just 3.5 % of GDP in 2023 , the end of the CBO &apos;s official forecast period .
That path of deficits implies that the government debt / GDP ratio will remain at about the current level of 75 % for the next ten years .
Unfortunately , these headline @-@ grabbing numbers are not likely to be borne out in reality ; indeed , even the CBO does not believe that they represent what will occur .
Instead , these official forecasts represent a &quot; baseline &quot; scenario that the CBO is required to present .
The CBO &apos;s &quot; baseline budget &quot; assumes that all of the deficit @-@ reducing features in current law will remain unchanged .
These include , for example , an old legislative requirement that payments to physicians in the government &apos;s Medicare program be reduced sharply in future years , a requirement that Congress has voted each year to &quot; postpone . &quot;
In order to provide better guidance , the CBO presents an &quot; alternative fiscal scenario , &quot; in which such very unlikely features are removed from the forecast .
The alternative forecast implies that the annual budget deficit at the end of ten years will be back up to 4.7 % of GDP , with the debt / GDP ratio at 83 % and rising .
And those estimates are based on the optimistic assumption that the economy will have returned gradually to full employment with low inflation and moderate interest rates .
Officials and others who favor stimulating growth through increased government spending ignore the CBO &apos;s more realistic alternative scenario .
They buttress their argument that the deficit is not an immediate problem by pointing to very low interest rates on long @-@ term government debt , with a 2 % yield on the ten @-@ year Treasury bond and a negative real interest rate on Treasury inflation @-@ protected bonds ( TIPS ) .
But such low rates do not reflect ordinary market sentiment ; rather , they stem from the fact that the Federal Reserve is now buying more long @-@ term securities than the government is issuing to finance the budget deficit .
Looking further ahead , the CBO warns that the combination of a rapidly aging population and the increase in medical costs will cause the deficit to rise rapidly , driven by the higher costs of pension and health @-@ care benefits for middle @-@ income retirees .
According to the CBO , without legislative changes , the fiscal deficit in 2037 will be 17 % of GDP , while the national debt will increase to more than 195 % of GDP .
A large and rising national debt is a serious danger to an economy &apos;s health .
Higher debt @-@ service costs require higher tax rates , which in turn weaken incentives and reduce economic growth .
By the end of the decade , the US will have to pay an amount equivalent to more than one @-@ third of the revenue from personal @-@ income taxes just to pay the interest on the national debt .
Foreign investors now hold more than half of that debt .
Paying interest to them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than the US receives from the rest of the world .
That requires a weaker dollar to make US goods more attractive to foreign buyers and to make foreign goods more expensive to American consumers .
The weaker dollar reduces the US standard of living .
A large national debt also limits the government &apos;s ability to respond to emergencies , including both military threats and economic downturns .
And it makes the US vulnerable to changes in financial @-@ market sentiment , as the European experience has shown .
Reducing future deficits and reversing the rise in the national debt require raising tax revenue and slowing the growth of government pension and health @-@ care programs .
Tax revenue can be raised without increasing marginal tax rates by limiting the tax subsidies that are built into the current tax code .
Those subsidies are a hidden form of government spending on everything from home mortgages and health insurance to the purchase of hybrid cars and residential solar panels .
Slowing the growth of the pension and health @-@ care programs for middle @-@ class retirees cannot be done abruptly .
It must begin by giving notice to those who are now a decade away from retirement - which is why it is important to launch such reforms now .
Unfortunately , the new complacency about future deficits makes it difficult , if not impossible , to enact the legislation needed to begin the process of trimming America &apos;s long @-@ term fiscal deficit .
It is important for policymakers and the public alike to understand the real fiscal outlook and the damage that high deficits will cause if prompt action is not taken .
Merely moving the problem to the back burner will not prevent it from boiling over .
Meeting America &apos;s Growth Challenge
BERKELEY - The United States continues to recover from its deepest economic slump since the Great Depression , but the pace of recovery remains frustratingly slow .
There are several reasons to anticipate modest improvement in 2013 , although , as usual , there are downside risks .
Prolonged recession or a financial crisis in Europe and slower growth in emerging markets are the main external sources of potential danger .
At home , political infighting underlies the two greatest risks : failure to reach a deal to raise the debt ceiling and an additional round of fiscal contraction that stymies economic growth .
Since 2010 , tepid average annual GDP growth of 2.1 % has meant weak job creation .
In both this recovery and the previous two , the rebound in employment growth has been weaker and later than the rebound in GDP growth .
But the loss of jobs in the most recent recession was more than twice as large as in previous recessions , so a slow recovery has meant a much higher unemployment rate for a much longer period .
Weak aggregate demand is the primary culprit for subdued GDP and employment growth .
The 2008 recession was triggered by a financial crisis that erupted after the collapse of a credit @-@ fueled asset bubble decimated the housing market .
Private @-@ sector demand contracts sharply and recovers only slowly after such crises .
The private @-@ sector financial balance swung from a deficit of 3.7 % of GDP in 2006 , at the height of the boom , to a surplus of about 6.8 % of GDP in 2010 and about 5 % today .
This represents the sharpest contraction and weakest recovery in private @-@ sector demand since the end of World War II .
Growth in two components of private demand , residential investment and consumption , which account for more than 75 % of total spending in the US economy , has been especially slow .
Both sources of demand are likely to strengthen in 2013 .
Residential investment is still at an historic low as a share of GDP as a result of overbuilding during the 2003 @-@ 2008 housing boom and the tsunami of foreclosures that followed .
But the headwinds in the housing market are dissipating .
Home sales , prices , and construction all rose last year , while foreclosures declined .
Residential investment should be a source of output and job growth this year .
Large losses in household wealth , deleveraging from unsustainable debt , weak wage growth , and a decline in labor &apos;s share of national income to a historic low have combined to constrain consumption growth .
Real median household income is still nearly 7 % below its 2007 peak , real median household net worth dropped by 35 % between 2005 and 2010 ( and remains significantly below its pre @-@ recession peak ) , and about 90 % of the income gains during the recovery have gone to the top 1 % .
To be sure , the balance @-@ sheet headwinds holding back consumption have eased .
Households have slashed their debt - often through painful foreclosures and bankruptcies - and their debt relative to income has sunk to its 2005 level , significantly below its 2008 peak . &amp; # 160 ; Helped by low interest rates , debt service relative to household income has fallen back to levels not seen since the early 1980 &quot; s .
But consumption will be hit by the expiration of the payroll tax cut , which will reduce household income by about $ 125 billion this year .
Another factor holding back recovery has been weak growth in spending on goods and services by both state and local governments , and more recently by the federal government .
Indeed , since the recession &apos;s onset , state and local governments have cut nearly 600,000 jobs and reduced spending for infrastructure projects by 20 % .
The fiscal trends for 2013 are mixed , but negative overall .
While state and local government cutbacks in spending and employment are ending as the recovery boosts their tax revenues , the fiscal drag at the federal level is strengthening .
The American Taxpayer Relief Act - the tax deal reached in early January to avoid the &quot; fiscal cliff &quot; - shaves about $ 750 billion from the deficit over the next ten years and could take a percentage point off the 2013 growth rate .
In addition , although less widely appreciated , significant reductions in federal spending are already under way , with more likely to come .
Spending cuts and revenue increases that have been legislated since 2011 will reduce the projected deficit by $ 2.4 trillion over the next decade , with three @-@ quarters coming from spending cuts , almost exclusively in non @-@ defense discretionary programs .
Based on current economic assumptions , the US needs about $ 4 trillion in savings to stabilize the debt / GDP ratio over the next decade .
It is already three @-@ fifths of the way there .
The so @-@ called sequester ( the across @-@ the @-@ board spending cuts scheduled to begin in March ) , would slash another $ 100 billion this year and $ 1.2 trillion over the next decade .
Although it could stabilize the debt / GDP ratio , the sequester would be a mistake : it fails to distinguish among spending priorities , would undermine essential programs , and would mean another significant dent in growth this year .
Moreover , despite the warnings of deficit alarmists , the US does not face an imminent debt crisis .
Currently , the federal debt held by the public is just over 70 % of GDP , a level not seen since the early 1950 &quot; s .
However , government debt soars by an average of 86 % after severe financial crises , so the increase in the federal debt by 70 % between 2008 and 2012 is not surprising .
Nor is it alarming .
The US economy grew rapidly for several years after WWII with a higher debt / GDP ratio , and today &apos;s ratio is lower than in all other major industrial countries ( and roughly half that of Greece , analogies to which are absurd and misleading ) .
During the last two years , Washington has been obsessed with the need to cut the deficit and put the debt / GDP ratio on a &quot; sustainable &quot; path , even as global investors have flocked to US government debt , driving interest rates to historic lows .
The considerable progress that has been made on deficit reduction over the next ten years has been overlooked .
Also overlooked have been the immediate challenges of low growth , weak investment , and high unemployment .
It is time to refocus .
The US needs a plan for faster growth , not more deficit reduction .
Evsey Domar , a legendary growth economist ( and one of my MIT professors ) counseled that the problem of alleviating the debt burden is essentially a problem of achieving growth in national income .
We should heed his wisdom .
America &apos;s New Progressive Era ?
NEW YORK - In 1981 , US President Ronald Reagan came to office famously declaring that , &quot; Government is not the solution to our problem .
Government is the problem . &quot;
Thirty @-@ two years and four presidents later , Barack Obama &apos;s recent inaugural address , with its ringing endorsement of a larger role for government in addressing America &apos;s - and the world &apos;s - most urgent challenges , looks like it may bring down the curtain on that era .
Reagan &apos;s statement in 1981 was extraordinary .
It signaled that America &apos;s new president was less interested in using government to solve society &apos;s problems than he was in cutting taxes , mainly for the benefit of the wealthy .
More important , his presidency began a &quot; revolution &quot; from the political right - against the poor , the environment , and science and technology - that lasted for three decades , its tenets upheld , more or less , by all who followed him : George H. W. Bush , Bill Clinton , George W. Bush , and , in some respects , by Obama in his first term .
The &quot; Reagan Revolution &quot; had four main components : tax cuts for the rich ; spending cuts on education , infrastructure , energy , climate change , and job training ; massive growth in the defense budget ; and economic deregulation , including privatization of core government functions , like operating military bases and prisons . Billed as a &quot; free @-@ market &quot; revolution , because it promised to reduce the role of government , in practice it was the beginning of an assault on the middle class and the poor by wealthy special interests .
These special interests included Wall Street , Big Oil , the big health insurers , and arms manufacturers .
They demanded tax cuts , and got them ; they demanded a rollback of environmental protection , and got it ; they demanded , and received , the right to attack unions ; and they demanded lucrative government contracts , even for paramilitary operations , and got those , too .
For more than three decades , no one really challenged the consequences of turning political power over to the highest bidders .
In the meantime , America went from being a middle @-@ class society to one increasingly divided between rich and poor . CEOs who were once paid around 30 times what their average workers earned now make around 230 times that amount .
Once a world leader in the fight against environmental degradation , America was the last major economy to acknowledge the reality of climate change .
Financial deregulation enriched Wall Street , but ended up creating a global economic crisis through fraud , excessive risk @-@ taking , incompetence , and insider dealing .
Maybe , just maybe , Obama &apos;s recent address marks not only the end of this destructive agenda , but also the start of a new era .
Indeed , he devoted almost the entire speech to the positive role of government in providing education , fighting climate change , rebuilding infrastructure , taking care of the poor and disabled , and generally investing in the future .
It was the first inaugural address of its kind since Reagan turned America away from government in 1981 .
If Obama &apos;s speech turns out to mark the start of a new era of progressive politics in America , it would fit a pattern explored by one of America &apos;s great historians , Arthur Schlesinger , Jr . , who documented roughly 30 @-@ year intervals between periods of what he called &quot; private interest &quot; and &quot; public purpose . &quot;
In the late 1800 &quot; s , America had its Gilded Age , with the creation of large new industries by the era &apos;s &quot; robber barons &quot; accompanied by massive inequality and corruption .
The subsequent Progressive Era was followed by a temporary return to plutocracy in the 1920 &quot; s .
Then came the Great Depression , Franklin Roosevelt &apos;s New Deal , and another 30 years of progressive politics , from the 1930 &quot; s to the 1960 &quot; s .
The 1970 &quot; s were a transition period to the Age of Reagan - 30 years of conservative politics led by powerful corporate interests .
It is certainly time for a rebirth of public purpose and government leadership in the US to fight climate change , help the poor , promote sustainable technologies , and modernize America &apos;s infrastructure . If America realizes these bold steps through purposeful public policies , as Obama outlined , the innovative science , new technology , and powerful demonstration effects that result will benefit countries around the world .
It is certainly too early to declare a new Progressive Era in America .
Vested interests remain powerful , certainly in Congress - and even within the White House .
These wealthy groups and individuals gave billions of dollars to the candidates in the recent election campaign , and they expect their contributions to yield benefits .
Moreover , 30 years of tax cutting has left the US government without the financial resources needed to carry out effective programs in key areas such as the transition to low @-@ carbon energy .
Still , Obama has wisely thrown down the gauntlet , calling for a new era of government activism .
He is right to do so , because many of today &apos;s crucial challenges - saving the planet from our own excesses ; ensuring that technological advances benefit all members of society ; and building the new infrastructure that we need nationally and globally for a sustainable future - demand collective solutions .
Implementation of public policy is just as important to good governance as the vision that underlies it .
So the next task is to design wise , innovative , and cost @-@ effective programs to address these challenges .
Unfortunately , when it comes to bold and innovative programs to meet critical human needs , America is out of practice .
It is time to begin anew , and Obama &apos;s full @-@ throated defense of a progressive vision points the US in the right direction .
America &apos;s New Trade Hypocrisy
As the current &quot; development round &quot; of trade talks moves into its final stages , it is becoming increasingly clear that the goal of promoting development will not be served , and that the multilateral trade system will be undermined .
Nowhere is this clearer than in a provision that is supposed to give the least developed countries almost duty @-@ free access to developed countries &quot; markets .
A year ago , the leaders of the world &apos;s richest countries committed themselves to alleviating the plight of the poorest .
At Doha in November 2001 , they pledged to give something more valuable than money : the opportunity for poor countries to sell their goods and earn their way out of poverty .
With great fanfare , developed countries seemed for a while to be making good on their promise , as Europe extended the &quot; Everything but Arms &quot; initiative ( EBA ) , under which it was unilaterally to open its markets to the poorest countries of the world .
The opening was less than it seemed .
The devil is in the details , as many less developed countries discovered that EBA &apos;s complicated rules of origin , together with supply @-@ side constraints , meant that there was little chance for poor countries to export their newly liberalized products .
But the coup de grace was delivered by the world &apos;s richest country , the United States , which once again decided to demonstrate its hypocrisy .
The US ostensibly agreed to a 97 % opening of its markets to the poorest countries .
The developing countries were disappointed with the results of Europe &apos;s EBA initiative , and Europe has responded by committing itself to dealing with at least part of the problem that arises from the rules of origin tests .
America &apos;s intention was , to the contrary , to seem to be opening up its markets , while doing nothing of the sort , for it appears to allow the US to select a different 3 % for each country .
The result is what is mockingly coming to be called the EBP initiative : developing countries will be allowed freely to export everything but what they produce .
They can export jet engines , supercomputers , airplanes , computer chips of all kinds - just not textiles , agricultural products , or processed foods , the goods they can and do produce .
Consider Bangladesh . If we go by the most widely used six @-@ digit tariff lines , Bangladesh exported 409 tariff lines to the US in 2004 , from which it earned about $ 2.3 billion .
But its top 12 tariff lines - 3 % of all tariff lines - accounted for 59.7 % of the total value of its exports to the US .
This means that the US could erect barriers to almost three @-@ fifths of Bangladeshi exports .
For Cambodia , the figure would be about 62 % .
The situation is no better if the 3 % rule applies to the tariff lines that the US imports from the rest of the world ( rather than to the lines individual poor countries export to the US ) , for then the US can exclude roughly 300 tariff lines from duty @-@ free and quota @-@ free treatment .
For Bangladesh , this implies that 75 % of the tariff lines , accounting for more than 90 % of the value of its exports to the US , could be excluded from duty @-@ free treatment .
Exclusion from duty @-@ free treatment could reach 100 % for Cambodia , which exported only 277 tariff lines to the US in 2004 .
The official argument for the 3 % exclusion is that it affects &quot; sensitive products . &quot;
In other words , while the US lectures developing countries on the need to face the pain of rapid adjustment to liberalization , it refuses to do the same .
( Indeed , it has already had more than 11 years to adjust to liberalization of textiles . )
But the real problem is far worse because the 3 % exclusion raises the specter of an odious policy of divide and conquer , as developing countries are invited to vie with each other to make sure that America does not exclude
Indeed , there may be a further hidden agenda behind the 97 % proposal .
At the World Trade Organization &apos;s meeting Cancun in 2003 , the developing countries stood together and blocked efforts to forge a trade agreement that was almost as unfair as the previous Uruguay round , under which the poorest countries actually became worse off .
It was imperative that such unity be destroyed .
America &apos;s strategy of bilateral trade agreements was aimed at precisely that , but it enlisted only a few countries , representing a fraction of global trade .
The 97 % formula holds open the possibility of extending that fragmentation
The US has already had some success in pitting the poor against each other .
Preferential access for African countries , under the African Growth and Opportunity Act ( AGOA ) and more recent initiatives , seems to be largely a matter of trade diversion - taking trade from some poor countries and giving it to others .
For example , Bangladesh &apos;s share in US clothing markets declined from 4.6 % in 2001 to 3.9 % in 2004 .
During the same period , AGOA countries &quot; market share in the US clothing sector increased from 1.6 % to 2.6 % , and it is likely to increase further when AGOA countries start to take full advantage of duty @-@ free access .
AGOA had a sunset clause , but if the duty @-@ free access becomes permanent for less developed countries in Africa - as stipulated in Hong Kong - then poor countries in Asia will continue to lose US market share .
The WTO is supposed to prevent these trade @-@ diversionary agreements , but so far no case has been successfully brought .
Even if America succeeds in dividing the developing countries , however , it may inspire a degree of unity elsewhere .
Both those committed to trade liberalization within a multilateral system and those committed to helping developing countries will look at America &apos;s new strategy with abhorrence .
America &apos;s Opposing Futures
I recently learned something interesting : American international finance economists and American domestically oriented macroeconomists have very different - indeed , opposing - views of the likely consequences of America &apos;s huge current @-@ account deficit .
International finance economists see a financial crisis as likely , followed by a painful and perhaps prolonged recession in the United States .
Domestically oriented macroeconomists , by contrast , see a forthcoming fall in the value of the dollar not as a crisis , but as an opportunity to accelerate growth .
Domestically oriented macroeconomists look at the situation roughly like this : at some point in the future , foreign central banks will become less willing to continue buying massive amounts of dollar @-@ denominated securities in order to prop up the greenback .
When they cease their large @-@ scale dollar @-@ purchase programs , the value of the dollar will fall - and it will fall hard .
But , according to this view , as the dollar &apos;s value declines , US exports will become more attractive to foreigners and American employment will rise , with labor re @-@ allocated to the newly @-@ vibrant export sector .
It will be like what happened in Britain after it abandoned its exchange @-@ rate peg and allowed the pound to depreciate relative to the Deutschmark , or what happened in the US in the late 1980 &quot; s , when the dollar depreciated against the pound , the Deutschmark , and - most importantly - the Japanese yen .
International finance economists see a far bleaker future .
They see the end of large @-@ scale dollar @-@ purchase programs by central banks leading not only to a decline in the dollar , but also to a spike in US long @-@ term interest rates , which will curb consumption spending immediately and throttle investment spending after only a short lag .
To be sure , international finance economists also see US exports benefiting as the value of the dollar declines , but the lags in demand are such that the export boost will come a year or two after the decline in consumption and investment spending .
Eight to ten million people will have to shift employment from services and construction into exports and import @-@ competing goods , implying that structural unemployment will rise .
Moreover , there may be a financial panic : large financial institutions with short @-@ term liabilities and long @-@ term assets will have a difficult time weathering a large rise in long @-@ term dollar @-@ denominated interest rates .
This mismatch can cause financial stress and bankruptcy just as easily as banks &quot; local @-@ currency assets and dollar liabilities caused stress and bankruptcy in the Mexican and East Asian crises of the 1990 &quot; s and in the Argentinean crisis of this decade .
When international finance economists sketch this scenario , domestically oriented macroeconomists respond that it sounds like a case of incompetent monetary policy .
Why should the Federal Reserve allow long @-@ term interest rates to spike just because other central banks have ceased their dollar @-@ purchase programs ?
Should not the Fed step in and replace them with its own purchases of long @-@ term US Treasury bonds , thereby keeping long @-@ term interest rates at a level conducive to full employment ?
To this , international finance economists respond that the Fed does not have the power to do so .
When forced to choose between full employment and price stability , the international finance economists say that the Fed will choose price stability , because its institutional memory of the 1970 &quot; s , when inflation ran rampant , remains very strong .
Therefore , since a fall in the value of the dollar raises import prices , and thus functions as a negative shock to the supply side of the economy , the Fed will have to raise , not lower , interest rates , and sell , not buy , bonds .
Serious economists whom I respect enormously find themselves taking strong positions on opposite sides of this debate .
I &apos;m not wise enough to say which side is right , but I certainly know which side I hope is wrong .
America &apos;s Other 30 %
NEW HAVEN - The American consumer is but a shadow of its former almighty self .
Personal consumption in the United States expanded at only a 1.5 % annual rate in real ( inflation @-@ adjusted ) terms in the second quarter of 2012 - and that was no aberration .
Unfortunately , it continues a pattern of weakness that has been evident since early 2008 .
Over the last 18 quarters , annualized growth in real consumer demand has averaged a mere 0.7 % , compared to a 3.6 % growth trend in the decade before the crisis erupted .
Never before has the American consumer been this weak for this long .
The cause is no secret .
Consumers made huge bets on two bubbles - housing and credit .
Reckless monetary and regulatory policies turned the humble abode into an ATM , allowing families to extract dollars from bubbles and live beyond their means .
Both bubbles have long since burst , and US households are now dealing with post @-@ bubble financial devastation - namely , underwater assets , record @-@ high debt , and profound shortages of savings .
At the same time , sharply elevated unemployment and subpar income growth have combined to tighten the noose on over @-@ extended consumers .
As a result , American households have hunkered down as never before .
Consumers are diverting what little income they earn away from spending toward paying down debt and rebuilding savings .
That is both logical and rational - and thus not something that the US Federal Reserve can offset with unconventional monetary easing .
American consumers &quot; unprecedented retrenchment has turned the US economy &apos;s growth calculus inside out .
Consumption typically accounts for 70 % of GDP ( 71 % in the second quarter , to be precise ) .
But the 70 % is barely growing , and is unlikely to expand strongly at any point in the foreseeable future .
That puts an enormous burden on the other 30 % of the US economy to generate any sort of recovery .
In fact , the other 30 % has not done a bad job , especially considering the severe headwinds coming from consumers &quot; 70 % .
The 30 % mainly consists of four components - capital spending by firms , net exports ( exports less imports ) , residential construction , and government purchases .
( Technically , the pace of inventory investment should be included , but this is a cyclical buffer between production and sales rather than a source of final demand . )
Given the 0.7 % trend in real consumption growth over the past four and a half years , the US economy &apos;s anemic 2.2 % annualized recovery in the aftermath of the Great Recession is almost miraculous .
Credit that mainly to the other 30 % , especially to strong exports and a rebound in business capital spending .
By contrast , the government sector has been moving in the opposite direction , as state and local governments retrench and federal purchases top out after post @-@ crisis deficit explosions .
The housing sector has started to recover over the past five quarters , but from such a severely depressed level that its growth has had little impact on the overall economy .
Given the strong likelihood that consumers will remain weak for years to come , America &apos;s growth agenda needs to focus on getting more out of the other 30 % .
Of the four growth components that fall into this category , two have the greatest potential to make a difference - capital spending and exports .
Prospects for these two sources of growth will not only influence the vigor , or lack thereof , of any recovery ; they could well be decisive in bringing about an important shift in the US growth model .
The 70 / 30 split underscores the challenge : the US must face up to a fundamental rebalancing - weaning itself from excessive reliance on internal demand and drawing greater support from external demand .
Capital spending and exports , which together account for about 24 % of GDP , hold the key to this shift .
At just over 10 % of GDP , the share of capital spending is well below the peak of nearly 13 % in 2000 .
But capital spending must exceed that peak if US businesses are to be equipped with state @-@ of @-@ the @-@ art capacity , technology , and private infrastructure that will enable them to recapture market share at home and abroad .
Only then could export growth , impressive since mid @-@ 2009 , sustain further increases .
And only then could the US stem the rising tide of import penetration by foreign producers .
The other 30 % is also emblematic of a deeper strategic issue that America faces - a profound competitive challenge .
A shift to external demand is not there for the asking . It must be earned by hard work , sheer determination , and a long overdue competitive revival .
On that front , too , America has been falling behind .
According to the World Economic Forum &apos;s Global Competitiveness Index , the US slipped to fifth place in 2011 @-@ 2012 , from fourth place the previous year , continuing a general downward trend evident since 2005 .
The erosion is traceable to several factors , including deficiencies in primary and secondary education as well as poor macroeconomic management .
But the US also has disturbingly low rankings in the quality of its infrastructure ( # 24 ) , technology availability and absorption ( # 18 ) , and the sophistication and breadth of its supply @-@ chain production processes ( # 14 ) .
Improvement on all counts is vital for America &apos;s competitive revival .
But meeting the challenge will require vigorous growth from America &apos;s other 30 % - especially private capital spending .
With the American consumer likely to remain on ice , the same 30 % must also continue to shoulder the burden of a sluggish economic recovery .
None of this can occur in a vacuum .
The investment required for competitive revival and sustained recovery cannot be funded without a long @-@ overdue improvement in US saving .
In an era of outsize government deficits and subpar household saving , that may be America &apos;s toughest challenge of all .
America \ u0027s Other 87 Deficits
NEW HAVEN - The United States has a classic multilateral trade imbalance .
While it runs a large trade deficit with China , it also runs deficits with 87 other countries .
A multilateral deficit cannot be fixed by putting pressure on one of its bilateral components .
But try telling that to America &apos;s growing chorus of China bashers .
America &apos;s massive trade deficit is a direct consequence of an unprecedented shortfall of domestic saving .
The broadest and most meaningful measure of a country &apos;s saving capacity is what economists call the &quot; net national saving rate &quot; - the combined saving of individuals , businesses , and the government .
It is measured in &quot; net &quot; terms to strip out the depreciation associated with aging or obsolescent capacity .
It provides a measure of the saving that is available to fund expansion of a country &apos;s capital stock , and thus to sustain its economic growth .
In the US , there simply is no net saving any more .
Since the fourth quarter of 2008 , America &apos;s net national saving rate has been negative - in sharp contrast to the 6.4 % -of @-@ GDP averaged over the last three decades of the twentieth century .
Never before in modern history has the world &apos;s leading economic power experienced a saving shortfall of such epic proportions .
Yet the US found a way to finesse this problem .
Exploiting what &amp; # 160 ; Valéry Giscard d &apos;Estaing called the &quot; exorbitant privilege &quot; of the world &apos;s reserve currency , the US borrowed surplus savings from abroad on very attractive terms , running massive balance @-@ of @-@ payments , or current @-@ account , deficits to attract foreign capital .
The US current account , which was last in balance in 1991 , hit a record deficit of $ 801 billion ( 6 % of GDP ) in 2006 .
This gap has narrowed in the past couple of years , but much of the improvement probably reflects little more than the temporary impact of an unusually tough business cycle .
This is where America &apos;s multilateral trade deficit enters the equation , for it has long accounted for the bulk of America &apos;s balance @-@ of @-@ payments gap .
Since 2000 , it has made up fully 96 % of the cumulative current @-@ account shortfall .
And that is what ultimately makes the China @-@ centric blame game so absurd .
Without addressing the root of the problem - America &apos;s chronic saving shortfall - it is ludicrous to believe that there can be a bilateral solution for a multilateral problem .
Yet that is exactly what US officials , together with many prominent economists , believe America needs .
Since the trade deficit is widely thought to put pressure on US jobs and real wages , the US @-@ China trade imbalance has come under special scrutiny in these days of great angst .
Yes , China does account for the largest component of America &apos;s multilateral trade deficit - making up 42 % of the total trade gap in 2010 .
Conscious outsourcing and supply @-@ chain management decisions by US multinationals play an important role in exaggerating China &apos;s share . But that does little to let China off the hook in the eyes of Washington .
Long @-@ standing charges of currency manipulation provide the proverbial smoking gun that US politicians - of both parties - &amp; # 160 ; believe justifies the imposition of steep tariffs on China &apos;s exports to the US ( which totaled $ 365 billion in 2010 ) .
That was precisely the argument behind the US Senate &apos;s recent overwhelming approval of a &quot; currency bill &quot; that took dead aim on China .
While it may be convenient to hold others accountable for America &apos;s problems , this is bad economics driving bad politics .
In an era of open @-@ ended US government budget deficits and chronic shortfalls in personal saving , America is doomed to suffer subpar savings and massive multilateral trade deficits for as far as the eye can see .
In that vein , closing down trade with China , while failing to address the saving shortfall , is like putting pressure on one end of a water balloon .
The Chinese component of America &apos;s multilateral trade deficit will simply migrate somewhere else - most likely to a higher @-@ cost producer .
That would be the functional equivalent of a tax hike on beleaguered American families - hardly the solution that US politicians are promising .
This is not to ignore important US @-@ China trade issues that need to be addressed .
Market access should be high on the agenda - especially for a sluggish US economy that needs new sources of growth , like exports .
With China now America &apos;s third largest - and by far its most rapidly growing - export market , the US should push hard to expand business opportunities in China , especially as the Chinese economy tilts increasingly toward internal demand .
China should be viewed as an opportunity , not a threat .
At the same time , the US government should come clean with the American public about charges of Chinese currency manipulation and unfair trade practices .
The renminbi has , in fact , appreciated by 30 % relative to the US dollar since mid @-@ 2005 .
In broad multilateral terms - a far more meaningful gauge because it measures a currency &apos;s value against a broad cross @-@ section of a country &apos;s trading partners - the &quot; real effective &quot; renminbi currently stands about 8 % above its most recent 12 @-@ year average ( 1998 @-@ 2010 ) .
Yes , China continues to accumulate a vast fund of foreign @-@ exchange reserves .
But this is as much the result of speculators &quot; &quot; hot money &quot; plays as it is a conscious and perfectly reasonable effort by Chinese policymakers to remain focused on financial stability and manage currency appreciation in a gradual , disciplined , and orderly fashion .
China @-@ bashing in the US speaks to a corrosive shift in the American psyche .
It deflects attention away from those truly responsible for perpetuating the greatest saving shortfall in history .
Washington has been seduced by the political economy of false prosperity .
That seduction has encouraged America to squander its savings and live beyond its means for nearly two decades .
Now the game is up .
The ultimate test of any nation &apos;s character is to look inside itself at moments of great challenge .
Swept up in the blame game , the US is doing the opposite .
And that could well be the greatest tragedy of all .
After all , America &apos;s 88 deficits did not arise of thin air .
The American Consumer is Not Okay
NEW HAVEN - The spin @-@ doctors are hard at work talking up America &apos;s subpar economic recovery .
All eyes are on households .
Thanks to falling unemployment , rising home values , and record stock prices , an emerging consensus of forecasters , market participants , and policymakers has now concluded that the American consumer is finally back .
Don &apos;t believe it .
First , consider the facts : Over the 21 quarters since the beginning of 2008 , real ( inflation @-@ adjusted ) personal consumption has risen at an average annual rate of just 0.9 % .
That is by far the most protracted period of weakness in real US consumer demand since the end of World War II - and a massive slowdown from the pre @-@ crisis pace of 3.6 % annual real consumption growth from 1996 to 2007 .
With household consumption accounting for about 70 % of the US economy , that 2.7 @-@ percentage @-@ point gap between pre @-@ crisis and post @-@ crisis trends has been enough to knock 1.9 percentage points off the post @-@ crisis trend in real GDP growth . Look no further for the cause of unacceptably high US unemployment .
To appreciate fully the unique character of this consumer @-@ demand shortfall , trends over the past 21 quarters need to be broken down into two distinct sub @-@ periods .
First , there was a 2.2 % annualized decline from the first quarter of 2008 through the second quarter of 2009 .
This was crisis @-@ driven carnage , highlighted by a 4.5 % annualized collapse in the final two quarters of 2008 .
Second , this six @-@ quarter plunge was followed , from mid @-@ 2009 through early 2013 , by 15 quarters of annualized consumption growth averaging just 2 % - an upturn that pales in comparison with what would have been expected based on past consumer @-@ spending cycles .
That key point appears all but lost on the consumer @-@ recovery crowd .
In recent speeches and discussions with current and former central bankers , I have been criticized for focusing too much on the 0.9 % trend of the past 21 quarters and paying too little attention to the 2 % recovery phase of the post @-@ crisis period .
At least it &apos;s a recovery , they claim , and a sign of healing that can be attributed mainly to the heroic , unconventional efforts of the US Federal Reserve .
This brings us to the second part of the argument against optimism : analytics .
One of the first concepts to which an economics student is exposed in a basic macro course is &quot; pent @-@ up &quot; consumer demand .
Discretionary consumption is typically deferred during recessions , especially for long @-@ lasting durable goods such as motor vehicles , furniture , and appliances .
Once the recession ends and recovery begins , a &quot; stock @-@ adjustment &quot; response takes hold , as households compensate for foregone replacement and update their aging durable goods .
Over most of the postwar period , this post @-@ recession release of pent @-@ up consumer demand has been a powerful source of support for economic recovery .
In the eight recoveries since the early 1950 &quot; s ( excluding the brief pop following the credit @-@ controls @-@ induced slump in the 1980 &quot; s ) , the stock @-@ adjustment response lifted real consumption growth by 6.1 % , on average , for five quarters following business @-@ cycle downturns ; spurts of 7 @-@ 8 % growth were not uncommon for a quarter or two .
By contrast , the release of pent @-@ up demand in the current cycle amounted to just 3 % annualized growth in the five quarters from early 2010 to early 2011 .
Moreover , the strongest quarterly gain was a 4.1 % increase in the fourth quarter of 2010 .
This is a stunning result .
The worst consumer recession in modern history , featuring a record collapse in durable @-@ goods expenditures in 2008 @-@ 2009 , should have triggered an outsize surge of pent @-@ up demand .
Yet it did anything but that .
Instead , the release of pent @-@ up consumer demand was literally half that of previous business cycles .
The third point is more diagnostic : The shockingly anemic pattern of post @-@ crisis US consumer demand has resulted from a deep Japan @-@ like balance @-@ sheet recession .
With the benefit of hindsight , we now know that the 12 @-@ year pre @-@ crisis US consumer @-@ spending binge was built on a precarious foundation of asset and credit bubbles . When those bubbles burst , consumers were left with a massive overhang of excess debt and subpar saving .
The post @-@ bubble aversion to spending , and the related focus on balance @-@ sheet repair , reflects what Nomura Research Institute economist Richard Koo has called a powerful &quot; debt rejection &quot; syndrome . While Koo applied this framework to Japanese firms in Japan &apos;s first lost decade of the 1990 &quot; s , it rings true for America &apos;s crisis @-@ battered consumers , who are still struggling with the lingering pressures of excessive debt loads , underwater mortgages , and woefully inadequate personal saving .
Through its unconventional monetary easing , the Fed is attempting to create a shortcut around the imperative of household sector balance @-@ sheet repair . This is where the wealth effects of now @-@ rebounding housing prices and a surging stock market come into play .
But are these newfound wealth effects really all that they are made out to be ?
Yes , the stock market is now at an all @-@ time high - but only in current dollars .
In real terms , the S &amp; amp ; P 500 is still 20 % below its January 2000 peak . Similarly , while the Case @-@ Shiller index of US home prices is now up 10.2 % over the year ending March 2013 , it remains 28 % below its 2006 peak .
Wealth creation matters , but not until it recoups the wealth destruction that preceded it .
Sadly , most American households are still far from recovery on the asset side of their balance sheets .
Moreover , though the US unemployment rate has fallen , this largely reflects an alarming decline in labor @-@ force participation , with more than 6.5 million Americans since 2006 having given up looking for work .
At the same time , while consumer confidence is on the mend , it remains well below pre @-@ crisis readings .
In short , the American consumer &apos;s nightmare is far from over .
Spin and frothy markets aside , the healing has only just begun .
America &apos;s Political Recession
BERKELEY - The odds are now about 36 % that the United States will be in a recession next year .
The reason is entirely political : partisan polarization has reached levels never before seen , threatening to send the US economy tumbling over the &quot; fiscal cliff &quot; - the automatic tax increases and spending cuts that will take effect at the beginning of 2013 unless Democrats and Republicans agree otherwise .
More than a century ago , during the first Gilded Age , American politics was sharply polarized as well .
In 1896 , future President Theodore Roosevelt was a Republican attack dog .
He denounced Democratic presidential candidate William Jennings Bryan as a mere puppet of the sinister governor of Illinois , John Peter Altgeld .
Bryan , Roosevelt said , &quot; would be as clay in the hands of the potter under the astute control of the ambitious and unscrupulous Illinois communist . &quot;
The &quot; free coinage of silver &quot; would be &quot; but a step towards the general socialism which is the fundamental doctrine of his political belief . &quot;
He and Altgeld &quot; seek to overturn the ... essential policies which have controlled the government since its foundation . &quot;
Such language is as extreme as any we hear today - and from a man who was shortly to become Vice President ( and later President , following the assassination of William McKinley ) .
We have heard Texas Governor Rick Perry call obliquely for the lynching of his fellow Republican , Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke , should he come to the Lone Star State .
And we have seen Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach explore the possibility of removing President Barack Obama from the ballot in Kansas , because , Kobach suggested , Obama is &quot; not a natural @-@ born citizen . &quot;
But neither Perry nor Kobach is likely ever to be a US president , whereas Theodore Roosevelt was more than a partisan .
He was happy to make deals with Democrats - to put himself at the head not just of the Republican Party but of the bipartisan Progressive coalition , trying either to yoke the two forces together or to tack back and forth between them to achieve legislative and policy goals .
Obama broadly follows Ronald Reagan &apos;s ( second @-@ term ) security policy , George H.W. Bush &apos;s spending policy , Bill Clinton &apos;s tax policy , the bipartisan Squam Lake Group &apos;s financial @-@ regulatory policy , Perry &apos;s immigration policy , John McCain &apos;s climate @-@ change policy , and Mitt Romney &apos;s health @-@ care policy ( at least when Romney was governor of Massachusetts ) .
And yet he has gotten next to no Republicans to support their own policies .
Indeed , like Clinton before him , Obama has been unable to get Republican senators like Susan Collins to vote for her own campaign @-@ finance policies , McCain to vote for his own climate @-@ change policy , and - most laughably - Romney to support his own health @-@ care plan .
Likewise , he has been unable to get Republican Vice @-@ Presidential candidate Paul Ryan to endorse his own Medicare cost @-@ control proposals .
There are obvious reasons for this .
A large chunk of the Republican base , including many of the party &apos;s largest donors , believes that any Democratic president is an illegitimate enemy of America , so that whatever such an incumbent proposes must be wrong and thus should be thwarted .
And the Republican cadres believe this of Obama even more than they believed it of Clinton .
This view clearly influences Republican office @-@ holders , who fear the partisan beast that mans their campaigns &quot; phone banks and holds the purse strings .
Moreover , ever since Clinton &apos;s election in 1992 , those at the head of the Republican Party have believed that creating gridlock whenever a Democrat is in the White House , and thus demonstrating the government &apos;s incapacity to act , is their best path to electoral success .
That was the Republicans &quot; calculation in 2011 @-@ 2012 .
And November &apos;s election did not change the balance of power anywhere in the American government : Obama remains President , the Republicans remain in control of the House of Representatives , and the Democrats control the Senate .
Now , it is possible that Republican legislators may rebel against their leaders , arguing that they ran for office to govern , not to paralyze the government in the hope that doing so will give the party power to reign as it wishes after the next election .
It is possible that Republican leaders like Representatives John Boehner and Eric Cantor and Senator Mitch McConnell will conclude that their policy of obstruction has been a failure .
They might note that , although the economy remains deeply troubled and depressed in the aftermath of a financial crisis for which they set the stage , Obama &apos;s policies have been by far the most successful of those in any major advanced country , and conclude that he has been a relatively good president , and one worth supporting .
But don &apos;t count on it .
Right now , every senior politician in America is telling their favorites in the press that they are confident that compromise on the &quot; fiscal cliff &quot; will be reached before the end of December .
But they are telling their favorites this because they think that pessimism now will lead to their being blamed for gridlock later .
It seems to me that the odds are around 60 % that real negotiation will not begin until tax rates go up on January 1 .
And it seems to me that , if gridlock continues into 2013 , the odds are 60 % that it will tip the US back into recession .
Let us hope that it will be short and shallow .
Bye @-@ Bye , Middle East ?
PARIS - For some time now , a certain strategic vision has been gaining traction : the United States is becoming energy @-@ independent , paving the way for its political retreat from the Middle East and justifying its strategic &quot; pivot &quot; toward Asia .
This view seems intuitively correct , but is it ?
Energy @-@ hungry America has long depended on the global market to meet domestic demand .
In 2005 , the US imported 60 % of the energy that it consumed .
Since then , however , the share of imports has decreased , and it should continue to do so .
The US is expected to become energy self @-@ sufficient in 2020 , and to become an oil exporter by 2030 .
This scenario would grant the US three enormous advantages .
It would enhance US economic competitiveness , especially relative to Europe , given the lower costs involved in the extraction of shale gas .
It would also reduce America &apos;s exposure to growing unrest in the Arab world .
Finally , it would increase the relative vulnerability of America &apos;s main strategic rival , China , which is becoming increasingly dependent on Middle East energy supplies .
These facts obviously need to be taken seriously , but their implications for US foreign policy in the Middle East should not be too hastily drawn .
Above all , though energy dependence is a key element of US policy in the region , it is far from being the only factor .
Israel &apos;s security and the desire to contain Iran are equally important .
Moreover , the Middle East &apos;s role in the global geopolitics of energy will grow in the coming decades , making it difficult to see how a superpower like the US could simply walk away from the region .
Within the next 15 years , OPEC countries will account for 50 % of global oil production , compared to only 42 % today .
Furthermore , the country on which this increase will most likely hinge is Iraq .
Could the US ignore a country that in roughly ten years will become the world &apos;s second @-@ largest oil exporter , generating more than $ 200 billion annually in revenue , while increasingly being dominated by an authoritarian Shia regime that is close to Iran ?
Would it withdraw in the face of the consequent strategic threat to its three allies - Saudi Arabia , Turkey , and Israel - in the region ?
Such a possibility seems even more far @-@ fetched as long as the Iranian nuclear crisis remains unresolved and the Syrian crisis continues to widen the region &apos;s Shia @-@ Sunni divide ( reflected in increased tension between Turkey and Iran ) .
Even as US President Barack Obama was visiting Asia in November - a trip meant to underscore America &apos;s &quot; pivot &quot; - he was forced to devote considerable time and attention to mediating a cease @-@ fire between Israel and Hamas in Gaza .
Indeed , if oil were truly America &apos;s only or paramount interest in the Middle East , its special relationship with Israel would be mystifying , given the harm that it implies for US interests among Arab oil exporters .
Even when its energy dependence on the Middle East was at its peak , the US rarely altered its policy of support for Israel .
It is also important to bear in mind that in 1973 , the US suffered less from the OPEC oil embargo than Europe did , even though America , which had resupplied Israel in its war with Egypt and Syria in October of that year , was the primary target .
In the end , America &apos;s position in the region strengthened after Egypt became a US ally and made peace with Israel .
China &apos;s growing interest in the Middle East also decreases the likelihood of an American withdrawal .
The US will remain concerned about ensuring the security of energy supplies for its Asian allies , which , like China , are increasingly dependent on the region &apos;s oil exporters .
Nevertheless , while an American withdrawal from the Middle East seems highly unlikely , US exposure to the region will indeed decline ; as that happens , America &apos;s role there will probably become more subdued - and perhaps more cynical .
Its involvement in the Israeli @-@ Palestinian conflict will likely be limited to maintaining the status quo rather than seeking a comprehensive settlement .
This stance - suggested by America &apos;s opposition to granting Palestine observer @-@ state status at the United Nations - would amount to an admission by the US that it has given up on the creation of two states in the Middle East .
That would certainly satisfy Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu and the Palestinian fringe seeking to weaken the Palestinian Authority .
But it would fully vindicate those who believe that Obama is more a man of good will than a visionary .
America &apos;s Perpetual Christmas
Has the United States transcended the laws of economics ?
As the New Year begins , the US continues to race ahead of its rich @-@ country counterparts .
The gargantuan US trade deficit ?
No problem .
In 2005 , it widened further , and the dollar only strengthened .
Low investment and a deteriorating primary education system ?
Not to worry .
The super @-@ flexible US economy keeps managing to produce more with less .
Nor are there any signs of America &apos;s economic hegemony starting to fold under the weight of maintaining its unilateral military dominance .
Instead of feeling the pinch of wartime privations , like in any ordinary country , American consumers are binging as if it were Christmas all year round .
There are those who truly believe in the idea that America is exceptional . Those true believers argue that America &apos;s consumers can long pursue their spendthrift ways because their country &apos;s economy is better than everyone else &apos;s .
The US labor market is more flexible than Europe &apos;s , enabling it to react more nimbly to the ever shifting sands of globalization . And , unlike most countries , especially in Latin America and Asia , the US system ruthlessly prunes weak corporate leadership .
Moreover , the true believers cite America &apos;s better @-@ funded and hyper @-@ competitive university system , which sucks in a disproportionate share of the world &apos;s top students and researchers .
Many ultimately choose to immigrate to America permanently , and it is relatively easy for them to do so , thanks to a society that still welcomes outsiders with open arms ( even if things have become more difficult since 2001 ) .
On top of all this , the US military , rather than being a burden , feeds the country &apos;s technological superiority by subsidizing basic research .
By contrast , skeptics hold that the US economy already contains the seeds of its own socio @-@ economic decline .
They point to worsening income inequality , as images beamed worldwide from post @-@ hurricane New Orleans illustrated all too clearly .
Poor children do not have reasonable access to health care . Nor are the non @-@ poor faring particularly well , as wage growth has remained virtually flat for a very long time , even as corporate profits are booming .
Indeed , this disconnect may explain why polls do not give President Bush the credit for economic management that his strong record would seem to merit .
Nor does it help Americans &quot; mood that they spend far more of their lives working than do citizens in Europe or , these days , even Japan .
All of these factors place deep stresses on the social fabric which , so the skeptics argue , will ultimately play out in the political arena .
Interestingly , both sides cite America &apos;s gaping trade deficit - believe it or not , the US is soaking up two @-@ thirds of global excess saving - to support their arguments .
The true believers view the deficits as evidence that the world recognizes how special the US is and wants to buy in .
Skeptics see an empire living on borrowed money and borrowed time .
So which is it ?
In my view , those who think that America is about to collapse are likely to be disappointed .
Nevertheless , I suspect that the age of American exceptionalism is near an end , and soon per capita income in Europe and Japan will approach that of the US , rather than falling farther behind .
Though the next few years are likely to underscore some of the weaknesses that the skeptics highlight , the end will come mainly because other countries will find creative ways to mimic the most effective US institutions , albeit within their own legal , political , and social frameworks .
We would do well to recall how , at the beginning of the 1990 &quot; s , book after book was still being written urging US and European corporations to imitate Japan or face certain doom .
The last 15 years have of course revealed deep flaws in Japan &apos;s financial system .
But another major factor contributing to Japan &apos;s decline was that firms elsewhere began adopting Japanese methods , such as just @-@ in @-@ time supply chains .
Surely , imitation will someday impinge on superior US growth performance as well .
Perhaps the biggest weakness in the true believers &quot; argument is the trade deficit .
For the moment , America &apos;s ability to borrow vast sums at low interest rates acts like a huge dose of steroids on the economy .
It artificially props up consumption growth and allows the government to defer hard choices between taxes and military expenditures .
At some point , the party is going to end .
The unwinding of the US economy might even begin in 2006 , particularly if Japan continues to grow out of its doldrums , the US housing market softens dramatically , and Europe &apos;s economic recovery accelerates .
Individually , these are each highly plausible scenarios , and collectively they would hit the US trade deficit like a perfect storm .
Perhaps the end will come in a different way , but it is difficult to imagine the age of US exceptionalism lasting indefinitely .
Can the end come abruptly in 2006 ?
This is not the most likely scenario , but it is not unthinkable .
America &apos;s Strategy Vacuum
NEW HAVEN - Apparently , policymakers at the Federal Reserve are having second thoughts about the wisdom of open @-@ ended quantitative easing ( QE ) .
They should .
Not only has this untested policy experiment failed to deliver an acceptable economic recovery ; it has also heightened the risk of another crisis .
The minutes of the January 29 @-@ 30 meeting of the Fed &apos;s Federal Open Market Committee ( FOMC ) speak to a simmering discontent : &quot; &#91; M &#93; any participants ... expressed some concerns about potential costs and risks arising from further asset purchases . &quot; The concerns range from worries about the destabilizing ramifications of an exit strategy from QE to apprehension about capital losses on the Fed &apos;s rapidly ballooning portfolio of securities ( currently $ 3 trillion , and on its way to $ 4 trillion by the end of this year ) .
As serious as these concerns may be , they overlook what could well be the greatest flaw in the Fed &apos;s unprecedented gambit : an emphasis on short @-@ term tactics over longer @-@ term strategy .
Blindsided by the crisis of 2007 @-@ 2008 , the Fed has compounded its original misdiagnosis of the problem by repeatedly doubling down on tactical responses , with two rounds of QE preceding the current , open @-@ ended iteration .
The FOMC , drawing a false sense of comfort from the success of QE1 - a massive liquidity injection in the depths of a horrific crisis - mistakenly came to believe that it had found the right template for subsequent policy actions .
That approach might have worked had the US economy been afflicted by a cyclical disease - a temporary shortfall of aggregate demand .
In that case , countercyclical policies - both fiscal and monetary - could eventually be expected to plug the demand hole and get the economy going again , just as Keynesians argue .
But the US is not suffering from a temporary , cyclical malady . It is afflicted by a very different disease : a protracted balance @-@ sheet recession that continues to hobble American households , whose consumption accounts for roughly 70 % of GDP .
Two bubbles - property and credit - against which American families borrowed freely , have long since burst . But the aftershocks linger : Household @-@ debt loads were still at 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) , and the personal @-@ saving rate averaged just 3.9 % last year ( compared to 7.9 % from 1970 to 1999 ) .
Understandably fixated on balance @-@ sheet repair , US consumers have not taken the bait from their monetary and fiscal authorities .
Instead , they have cut back on spending .
Gains in inflation @-@ adjusted personal @-@ consumption expenditure have averaged a mere 0.8 % over the past five years - the most severe and protracted slowdown in consumer demand growth in the post @-@ World War II era .
The brute force of massive monetary and fiscal stimulus rings hollow as a cyclical remedy to this problem .
Another approach is needed .
The focus , instead , should be on accelerating the process of balance @-@ sheet repair , while at the same time returning monetary and fiscal policy levers to more normal settings .
Forgiveness of &quot; underwater &quot; mortgages ( where the outstanding loan exceeds the home &apos;s current market value ) , as well as reducing the foreclosure overhang of some 1.5 million homes , must be part of that solution .
How else can the crisis @-@ battered housing market finally clear for the remainder of US homeowners ?
The same can be said for enhanced saving incentives , which would contribute to longer @-@ term financial security for American households , most of which suffered massive wealth losses in the Great Recession .
Expanded individual retirement accounts and 401K pension schemes , special incentives for low @-@ income households ( most of which have no retirement plans ) , and an end to the financial repression that the Fed &apos;s zero @-@ interest @-@ rate policy imposes on savers must also be part of the solution .
Yes , these are controversial policies .
Debt forgiveness raises thorny ethical concerns about condoning reckless and irresponsible behavior .
But converting underwater &quot; non @-@ recourse &quot; mortgage loans , where only the house is at risk , into so @-@ called &quot; recourse liabilities , &quot; for which nonpayment would have consequences for all of a borrower &apos;s assets , could address this concern , while simultaneously tempering America &apos;s culture of leverage with a much greater sense of responsibility .
Timing is also an issue , especially with respect to saving incentives .
To avoid the shortfall in aggregate demand that might arise from an abrupt surge in saving , these measures should be phased in over a period of 3 @-@ 5 years .
The main benefit of these proposals is that they are more strategic than tactical - better aligned with the balance @-@ sheet problems that are actually afflicting the economy .
As the quintessential laissez @-@ faire system , the US has outsourced strategy to the invisible hand of the market for far too long .
That has left the government locked into a reactive and often misguided approach to unexpected problems .
Thus , the Fed is focused on cleaning up after a crisis rather than on how to avoid another one .
The same is true of US fiscal policy , with an event @-@ driven debate that now has ever @-@ shorter time horizons : the fiscal cliff on January 1 , sequestration of expenditures on March 1 , expiration of the continuing budget resolution on March 27 , and the new May 18 debt @-@ ceiling limit .
A compliant bond market , which may well be the next bubble , is mistakenly viewed as the ultimate validation of this myopic approach .
The dangers of America &apos;s strategy vacuum and the related penchant for short @-@ termism have been mounting for some time .
Harvard Business School professor Michael Porter famously raised this concern in a 1996 article in the Harvard Business Review .
His focus was on corporate decision @-@ making and misaligned incentives leading to a worrisome dichotomy between the short @-@ term tactics of &quot; operational effectiveness &quot; ( cost cutting , outsourcing , and reengineering ) and the long @-@ term visionary bets that frame successful strategies .
While Porter &apos;s critique was directed at business managers , it bears critically on the current US policy debate .
A successful long @-@ term strategy cannot be seen as a succession of short @-@ term fixes .
The internal debate in the FOMC represents a healthy and long @-@ overdue recognition that the central bank may be digging itself into an ever @-@ deeper hole by committing to misguided policies aimed at the wrong problem .
A comparable debate is raging over fiscal policy .
Can America finally face up to the perils of its strategy vacuum ?
America &apos;s Political Class Struggle
NEW YORK - America is on a collision course with itself .
This month &apos;s deal between President Barack Obama and the Republicans in Congress to extend the tax cuts initiated a decade ago by President George W. Bush is being hailed as the start of a new bipartisan consensus .
I believe , instead , that it is a false truce in what will become a pitched battle for the soul of American politics .
As in many countries , conflicts over public morality and national strategy come down to questions of money .
In the United States , this is truer than ever .
The US is running an annual budget deficit of around $ 1 trillion , which may widen further as a result of the new tax agreement .
This level of annual borrowing is far too high for comfort .
It must be cut , but how ?
The problem is America &apos;s corrupted politics and loss of civic morality . One political party , the Republicans , stands for little except tax cuts , which they place above any other goal .
The Democrats have a bit wider set of interests , including support for health care , education , training , and infrastructure .
But , like the Republicans , the Democrats , too , are keen to shower tax cuts on their major campaign contributors , predominantly rich Americans .
The result is a dangerous paradox .
The US budget deficit is enormous and unsustainable .
The poor are squeezed by cuts in social programs and a weak job market .
One in eight Americans depends on Food Stamps to eat .
Yet , despite these circumstances , one political party wants to gut tax revenues altogether , and the other is easily dragged along , against its better instincts , out of concern for keeping its rich contributors happy .
This tax @-@ cutting frenzy comes , incredibly , after three decades of elite fiscal rule in the US that has favored the rich and powerful .
Since Ronald Reagan became President in 1981 , America &apos;s budget system has been geared to supporting the accumulation of vast wealth at the top of the income distribution .
Amazingly , the richest 1 % of American households now has a higher net worth than the bottom 90 % .
The annual income of the richest 12,000 households is greater than that of the poorest 24 million households .
The Republican Party &apos;s real game is to try to lock that income and wealth advantage into place .
They fear , rightly , that sooner or later everyone else will begin demanding that the budget deficit be closed in part by raising taxes on the rich .
After all , the rich are living better than ever , while the rest of American society is suffering .
It makes sense to tax them more .
The Republicans are out to prevent that by any means .
This month , they succeeded , at least for now .
But they want to follow up their tactical victory - which postpones the restoration of pre @-@ Bush tax rates for a couple of years - with a longer @-@ term victory next spring .
Their leaders in Congress are already declaring that they will slash public spending in order to begin reducing the deficit .
Ironically , there is one area in which large budget cuts are certainly warranted : the military .
But that is the one item most Republicans won &apos;t touch .
They want to slash the budget not by ending the useless war in Afghanistan , and by eliminating unnecessary weapons systems , but by cutting education , health , and other benefits for the poor and working class .
In the end , I don &apos;t think they will succeed .
For the moment , most Americans seem to be going along with Republican arguments that it is better to close the budget deficit through spending cuts rather than tax increases .
Yet when the actual budget proposals are made , there will be a growing backlash .
With their backs against the wall , I predict , poor and working @-@ class Americans will begin to agitate for social justice .
This may take time .
The level of political corruption in America is staggering .
Everything now is about money to run electoral campaigns , which have become incredibly expensive .
The mid @-@ term elections cost an estimated $ 4.5 billion , with most of the contributions coming from big corporations and rich contributors .
These powerful forces , many of which operate anonymously under US law , are working relentlessly to defend those at the top of the income distribution .
But make no mistake : both parties are implicated .
There is already talk that Obama will raise $ 1 billion or more for his re @-@ election campaign .
That sum will not come from the poor .
The problem for the rich is that , other than military spending , there is no place to cut the budget other than in areas of core support for the poor and working class .
Is America really going to cut health benefits and retirement income ? Will it really balance the budget by slashing education spending at a time when US students already are being out @-@ performed by their Asian counterparts ?
Will America really let its public infrastructure continue to deteriorate ?
The rich will try to push such an agenda , but ultimately they will fail .
Obama swept to power on the promise of change .
So far there has been none .
His administration is filled with Wall Street bankers .
His top officials leave to join the banks , as his budget director Peter Orszag recently did .
He is always ready to serve the interests of the rich and powerful , with no line in the sand , no limit to &quot; compromise . &quot;
If this continues , a third party will emerge , committed to cleaning up American politics and restoring a measure of decency and fairness .
This , too , will take time .
The political system is deeply skewed against challenges to the two incumbent parties .
Yet the time for change will come .
The Republicans believe that they have the upper hand and can pervert the system further in favor of the rich .
I believe that they will be proved wrong .
America \ u0027s Problems Run Deeper than Wall Street
CAMBRIDGE - With less than two months remaining before America &apos;s presidential election , much attention is focused on the state of the American economy and the challenges that it will present to the next president .
We are in the midst of a financial crisis caused by the serious mispricing of all kinds of risks and by the collapse of the housing bubble that developed in the first half of this decade .
What started as a problem with sub @-@ prime mortgages has now spread to houses more generally , as well as to other asset classes .
The housing problem is contributing to the financial crisis , which in turn is reducing the supply of credit needed to sustain economic activity .
Indeed , the financial crisis has worsened in recent weeks , reflected in the US Federal Reserve &apos;s takeover of quasi @-@ government mortgage lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac - which may cost American taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars - as well as the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers and the sale of Merrill Lynch .
Ultimately , these financial failures reflect the downward spiral of house prices and the increasing number of homes with negative equity , i.e. , with substantial mortgage debt in excess of market values .
Negative equity is significant because mortgages in the United States are generally &quot; no recourse &quot; loans .
If a homeowner defaults , creditors can take the house , but they cannot take other property or income to make up any unpaid balance .
Even in those states where mortgages are not &quot; no recourse &quot; loans , creditors generally do not pursue the assets or income of individuals who default .
We cannot be sure about how much further house prices will fall .
Experts say another 15 % decline is required just to return to the pre @-@ bubble price path .
But there is nothing to stop the decline from continuing once it reaches that point .
The growing gap between mortgage debts and house prices will continue to increase the rate of defaults .
Many homeowners who can afford to make their mortgage payments will choose to default , move to rental housing , and wait to purchase until house prices have declined further .
As homeowners with large negative equity default , the foreclosed homes contribute to the excess supply that drives prices down further .
And the lower prices lead to more negative equity and therefore to more defaults and foreclosures .
It is not clear what will stop this self @-@ reinforcing process .
Declining house prices are key to the financial crisis and the outlook for the economy , because mortgage @-@ backed securities , and the derivatives based on them , are the primary assets that are weakening financial institutions .
Until house prices stabilize , these securities cannot be valued with any confidence .
And that means that the financial institutions that own them cannot have confidence in the liquidity or solvency of potential counterparties - or even in the value of their own capital .
Without this confidence , credit will not flow and economic activity will be constrained .
Moreover , because financial institutions &quot; assets were bought mainly with borrowed money , the shortage of credit is exacerbated by their need to deleverage .
Since raising capital is difficult and costly , they deleverage by lending less .
But the macroeconomic weakness in the US now goes beyond the decreased supply of credit . Falling house prices reduce household wealth and therefore consumer spending .
Falling employment lowers wage and salary incomes .
The higher prices of food and energy depress real incomes further .
And declining economic activity in the rest of the world is lowering demand for US exports .
The US Federal Reserve has , in my judgment , responded appropriately by reducing the federal funds interest rate sharply and creating a variety of new credit facilities .
The low interest rate helped by making the dollar more competitive , but otherwise monetary policy appears to have lost traction because of the condition of the housing sector and the dysfunctional state of the credit markets .
The US Congress and the Bush administration enacted a $ 100 billion tax rebate in an attempt to stimulate consumer spending .
Those of us who supported this policy generally knew that history and economic theory implied that such one @-@ time fiscal transfers have little effect , but we thought that this time might be different .
Our support was , in the words of Samuel Johnson , a triumph of hope over experience .
In the end , our hopes were frustrated .
The official national income accounting data for the second quarter are now available , and they show that the rebates did very little to stimulate spending .
More than 80 % of the rebate dollars were saved or used to pay down debt .
Very little was added to current spending .
So that is where the US is now : in the middle of a financial crisis , with the economy sliding into recession , monetary policy already at maximum easing , and fiscal transfers impotent .
That is an unenviable situation , to say the least , for any incoming president .
Obama &apos;s Burmese Gamble
ARLINGTON - The rapprochement between the United States and Myanmar ( Burma ) has proceeded at a blistering pace .
A year ago , the two countries did not even have ambassadors in each other &apos;s capitals .
In May , President Thein Sein became the first leader from Myanmar to visit the White House in nearly a half @-@ century .
But has Barack Obama &apos;s administration been too quick to embrace what was , until recently , one of the world &apos;s most repressive regimes ?
Or , on the contrary , is decisive US support essential to Myanmar &apos;s fledgling reform process ?
Until the recent opening , Myanmar , which gained independence in 1948 , had been ruled by a secretive military junta since 1962 .
As recently as 2010 , the regime held elections so blatantly rigged that the main opposition party refused to participate .
But in 2011 , shortly before assuming the presidency , Sein , a general who served as Prime Minister under the junta , began to take steps that impressed even the most skeptical observers .
Unlike the token gestures of reform offered by previous rulers , Sein &apos;s actions appeared substantive and meaningful .
One important change was the release of hundreds of political prisoners , including the regime &apos;s most prominent opponent , Aung San Suu Kyi , who had been under house arrest for nearly 15 years .
Moreover , Sein initiated a dialogue with Suu Kyi , a Nobel Peace Prize winner and the leader of the National League for Democracy ( NLD ) , about a transition to civilian rule .
The subsequent elections bolstered hope for Myanmar &apos;s democratic future .
In 1990 , when the NLD won 81 % of the seats in Parliament , the junta promptly voided the results and arrested Suu Kyi .
In 2012 , the NLD won 43 of the 44 seats that it contested , and the military accepted Suu Kyi as the reform movement &apos;s legitimate leader .
Furthermore , Sein has reached out to the Karen , Kachin , and other ethnic minorities - groups whose members have suffered decades of official persecution and mistreatment .
And efforts to open Myanmar &apos;s economy to international trade have transformed the country &apos;s commercial capital , Yangon ( Rangoon ) , with businesspeople now arriving on direct flights from at least a half @-@ dozen foreign capitals and once @-@ empty streets now congested with imported cars .
But , in some areas , reform has been painfully slow .
In fact , when it comes to human rights and minority protections , Myanmar may even be regressing .
The liberalization process has exposed the country &apos;s long @-@ standing religious divisions , leading to a wave of sectarian violence aimed primarily at the minority Muslim community .
From coastal Rakhine to inland towns like Meiktila and Tatkon , Buddhist monks have incited violence against Muslims ( and sometimes vice versa ) , with local officials often tacitly permitting religious bloodletting .
At his meeting with Sein in Washington , DC , Obama condemned the violence against Myanmar &apos;s Muslims , which has displaced many of them .
On the same day , the US State Department released its annual report on religious freedom , in which Myanmar was included among the world &apos;s eight worst offenders .
This has not always been the case .
Although Myanmar is an overwhelmingly Buddhist country , dozens of religious and ethnic communities have long lived there side by side .
In the heart of Yangon , the golden dome of the Sule Pagoda stands just across the street from the minarets of the Bengali Mosque .
In order to achieve the peace and stability needed to consolidate Myanmar &apos;s democratic transition , both Sein and Suu Kyi should do more to establish themselves as representatives of all of Myanmar &apos;s citizens .
Muslims need to be assured of their personal security and guaranteed full civil rights .
The Obama administration has staked significant political capital on the wager that Myanmar &apos;s promise may finally bear fruit .
And , indeed , the rate of change in Myanmar over the last two years has been nothing short of remarkable .
But , as Sein acknowledged at the White House , Myanmar &apos;s government &quot; has been encountering obstacles and challenges along &#91; its &#93; democratization process . &quot; How it copes with these problems - and those that have yet to arise - will determine whether America has given its blessing prematurely .
America &apos;s Reactionary Feminists
NEW YORK - It is obvious that the left and the media establishment in the United States cannot fully understand the popular appeal of the two Republican tigresses in the news - first Sarah Palin , and now , as she consolidates her status as a Republican presidential front @-@ runner , Michele Bachmann .
What do they have that other candidates don &apos;t - &amp; # 160 ; and that so many Americans seem to want ?
Both Bachmann and Palin are regularly derided in the mainstream press .
In Palin &apos;s case , the dominant perception is that she is an intellectual lightweight : a clip of her unable to mention a single newspaper or news magazine that she reads regularly got millions of hits on YouTube during the last presidential election .
Bachmann , on the other hand , &amp; # 160 ; is portrayed as being slightly unhinged .
Indeed , I can attest from personal experience that to debate her is to encounter someone who is absolutely certain of facts that must exist somewhere in a parallel universe .
But it would be a mistake simply to dismiss their appeal with no effort to comprehend its source .
This is especially true of Bachmann .
Palin has not managed to secure the support and mentorship of the Republican Party establishment , and will continue to showcase her odd appeal as a media personality .
But Bachman , weirdly , might become President of the United States .
The nature of their attraction has to do with two strains in American thought to which the US left and media establishment are truly blind .
One is the American tradition of populist demagoguery - a tradition that , in the twentieth century , included the racist Father Charles Coughlin in the 1930 &quot; s , the anti @-@ Communist witch @-@ hunter Joe McCarthy in the 1950 &quot; s , and the radical Malcolm X in the 1960 &quot; s .
Populist leaders inspire passionate devotion , usually in people who feel ( and often are ) economically , politically , and culturally marginalized .
These populist movements &quot; energy can be directed for good or ill , but demagogues in America embrace similar tactics to fuel their rise to visibility and power .
They use emotive rhetoric .
They often invent shadowy networks of &quot; elite &quot; forces ranged against the ordinary , decent American .
They create an &quot; us versus them &quot; scenario .
And they ask their listeners to believe that they alone will restore American dignity and articulate the wishes of the unheard .
Palin and Bachmann speak this highly personal or emotional language , which even the most rock @-@ ribbed male Republican finds difficult to emulate .
In the last three decades , America &apos;s male @-@ dominated politics has become increasingly wonky , abstract , and professionalized .
This is bad for demagoguery , but it does not inhibit the tigresses on the right , who did not come up through the &quot; old boy &apos;s club . &quot;
As a result , Palin is free to talk about &quot; death panels &quot; - a wholly invented threat of President Barack Obama &apos;s health @-@ care reform - and Bachmann can summon the spirit of McCarthy to raise the equally bizarre specter of socialism &apos;s tentacles infiltrating the highest levels of government .
Both can issue homespun appeals as &quot; hockey moms &quot; or &quot; soccer moms &quot; - precisely the type of emotionalism that more cut @-@ and @-@ dried professional male politicians , even ( or especially ) at the top of the party , cannot manage to deliver .
The second reason that Bachmann and Palin appeal to so many Americans - and this should not be underestimated , either - has to do with a serious historical misreading of feminism .
Because feminism in the 1960 &quot; s and 1970 &quot; s was articulated via the institutions of the left - in Britain , it was often allied with the labor movement , and in America , it was reborn in conjunction with the emergence of the New Left - there is an assumption that feminism itself must be leftist .
In fact , feminism is philosophically as much in harmony with conservative , and especially libertarian , values - and in some ways even more so .
The core of feminism is individual choice and freedom , and it is these strains that are being sounded now more by the Tea Party movement than by the left .
But , apart from these sound bites , there is a powerful constituency of right @-@ wing women in Britain and Western Europe , as well as in America , who do not see their values reflected in collectivist social @-@ policy prescriptions or gender quotas .
They prefer what they see as the rugged individualism of free @-@ market forces , a level capitalist playing field , and a weak state that does not impinge on their personal choices .
Many of these women are socially conservative , strongly supportive of the armed forces , and religious - and yet they crave equality as strongly as any leftist vegetarian in Birkenstocks .
It is blindness to this perfectly legitimate approach to feminism that keeps tripping up commentators who wish to dismiss women like Margaret Thatcher , or Muslim women , or now right @-@ wing US women leaders , as somehow not being the &quot; real thing . &quot;
But these women are real feminists - even if they do not share policy preferences with the already recognized &quot; sisterhood , &quot; and even if they themselves would reject the feminist label .
In the case of Palin - and especially that of Bachmann - we ignore the wide appeal of right @-@ wing feminism at our peril .
America \ u0027s Retreat from Asia
The United States &apos; planned withdrawal of troops from Asia , which President George W. Bush announced on August 16 , need not harm peace and stability in the region and particularly in Korea .
But a key condition for a smooth redeployment of US troops is close consultations by America with its allies , something it has not done well up to now .
South Korea and Japan need to have their views taken into serious account if this now inevitable withdrawal is to succeed .
By contrast , unilaterally announcing the withdrawal - and then unilaterally implementing it - may harm the very purpose that the remaining US troops in Asia are intended to serve : assuring deterrence , stability , and nonproliferation in Korea and Asia .
The withdrawal plan is causing countless worries .
In Japan , there are concerns that it will make the country America &apos;s frontline command post in Asia , possibly beyond the scope of its bilateral security treaty with the US .
One result is that China feels nervous about the implications of any expansion of the American @-@ Japanese military partnership .
But the impact of America &apos;s planned troop withdrawals is felt most keenly in South Korea .
In June , the Bush administration revealed its plan to withdraw some 12,500 of the 37,000 US soldiers stationed in South Korea by the end of 2005 .
These include 3,600 troops from the 2nd Brigade of the 2nd Infantry Division , who are already earmarked for redeployment in Iraq .
The US Defense Department justifies this change as part of the so @-@ called &quot; Global Posture Review &quot; that it has been carrying out to provide more flexibility and mobility in deploying troops to more urgently needed places around the world .
But the unilateral nature of the announcement , and the abrupt timing of the plan , has incited alarm in South Korea , and perhaps in Japan , that withdrawal could pose serious risks to the vital role that US forces have performed in deterring another war in Korea .
South Koreans genuinely fear that the plan may weaken deterrence by sending North Korea - which is demanding a US military withdrawal while refusing to abandon its nuclear weapons ambitions - the message that intransigence pays .
Indeed , it should not be forgotten that North Korea maintains an army of 1.1 million troops .
Moreover , the manner in which the Bush administration unveiled its withdrawal plan has weakened the credibility of the US @-@ Korean alliance .
America &apos;s unilateral announcement has fuelled rumors to the effect that withdrawal must have something to do with the rising tide of anti @-@ Americanism in South Korea , and especially with the country &apos;s reluctance and delay in dispatching an additional 3,600 of its own soldiers to Iraq .
The Bush administration tries to rebut these charges by saying that the plan will not weaken the deterrence capabilities of American forces , for America &apos;s far more powerful air and naval presence in the area will be maintained . Moreover , the US plans to strengthen South Korea &apos;s own forces by supplying some $ 11 billion worth of high @-@ technology equipment over the next five years .
Militarily , this argument does make sense .
Politically and psychologically , however , the method , let alone the timing and implementation of the withdrawals , raises many questions about the ongoing viability of the US @-@ Korean security alliance , for the alliance now seems adrift , without a common purpose and with little direction from either side .
Yet the Bush administration insists : &quot; The US views South Korea as a strong and steadfast ally .
We are committed to South Korea &apos;s security and to our alliance and partnership with Seoul . &quot;
If Washington is serious about these words , it should transform this commitment into a long @-@ term and comprehensive alliance that can survive the current estrangement - and continue even after Korean unification - by making a joint declaration with South Korea &apos;s government at the highest level .
In order to allay misgivings and restore trust in the alliance , it is necessary for the US and South Korea to reaffirm their common interests and values in pursuing deterrence , nonproliferation , stability , and democracy on the Korean peninsula and across Asia .
Once they resolve to continue their alliance with these purposes in mind , it should be possible for responsible officials to work out guiding principles for concrete security cooperation .
Specific negotiations on withdrawing American troops from Korea or on redeploying them from the DMZ to south of Seoul must be carried out according to these principles .
In so doing , America must treat South Korea as a full partner with its own voice in making decisions that affect its security interests .
As an American ally for 51 years , and as East Asia &apos;s third @-@ largest economy , South Korea is entitled to be fully consulted on such decisions .
Despite anti @-@ American sentiments among some South Koreans , a majority of the country &apos;s people wants American forces to remain as a stabilizing force .
Securing a peaceful and nuclear @-@ free Korean peninsula , a place where the interests of China , Japan , Russia , and America directly intersect , is one of the most important security goals anywhere on the planet .
For this reason , America and South Korea must restore a strategic vision for the future .
America &apos;s Saving Rate and the Dollar &apos;s Future
CAMBRIDGE - The saving rate of American households has risen sharply since the beginning of the year , reaching 6.9 % of after @-@ tax personal income in May , the highest rate since 1992 .
In today &apos;s economy , that is equivalent to annual savings of $ 750 billion .
While a 6.9 % saving rate is not high in comparison to that of many other countries , it is a dramatic shift from the household @-@ saving rate of less than 1 % that the United States experienced in 2005 , 2006 , and 2007 .
Before it began rising last year , the US household saving rate had been declining for more than 20 years in response to the increasing level of household wealth .
The rising stock market and the higher value of homes induced individuals to consume more of their incomes and to save less .
As a result , most working individuals reduced the amount that they saved for their retirement , and retirees were able to increase their spending .
The net saving rate fell to near zero .
The sharp drop in household wealth over the past two years , however , put an end to that .
Dramatically lower share prices and a 35 % fall in home prices reduced household wealth by $ 14 trillion , a loss equal to 140 % of annual disposable income .
Individuals now have to save more to prepare for retirement , and retirees have less wealth to spend .
Looking ahead , the saving rate may rise even further , and will , in any case , remain high for many years .
The increase in the household saving rate reduces America &apos;s need for foreign funds to finance its business investment and residential construction .
Taken by itself , today &apos;s $ 750 billion annual rate of household saving could replace that amount in capital inflows from the rest of the world .
Since the peak annual rate of capital inflow was $ 803 billion ( in 2006 ) , the increased household saving has the potential to eliminate almost all of America &apos;s dependence on foreign capital .
The annual capital inflow is equal each year to the US current @-@ account deficit - the sum of the trade deficit plus the net interest and dividends that America &apos;s government and businesses owe to the rest of the world .
The fall in the capital inflow would therefore bring with it a fall in the trade deficit .
Since reducing the trade deficit requires increasing exports and shrinking imports , the international value of the dollar must decline to make US products more attractive to foreign buyers and US goods and services more attractive to American consumers .
Without a fall in the dollar and the resulting rise in net exports , a higher saving rate and reduced consumer spending could push the US economy into a deep recession .
By contrast , the lower dollar makes reduced consumption consistent with full employment by shifting consumer spending from imports to domestic goods and services , and by supplementing this rise in domestic demand with increased exports .
But this direct link between higher household saving and a lower dollar will only be forged if higher household saving is not outweighed by a rise in government dis @-@ saving , i.e. , by a larger government deficit .
A large fiscal deficit increases the need for foreign funds to avoid crowding out private investment .
Put differently , the value of the dollar reflects total national saving , not just savings in the household sector .
Unfortunately , the US fiscal deficit is projected to remain high for many years .
The Congressional Budget Office projects that the US government &apos;s budget deficit will average 5.2 % of GDP over the next decade , and be 5.5 % of GDP a decade from now .
If that high level of government borrowing occurs , it will absorb all of the available household savings even at the current elevated level .
That would mean that the US would continue to need substantial inflows of foreign capital to fund business investment and housing construction .
So the dollar would have to stay at its current level to continue to create the large trade deficit and resulting capital inflow .
It is , of course , possible - I would say likely - that China and other foreign lenders will not be willing to continue to provide the current volume of lending to the US .
Their reduced demand for dollars will cause the dollar to decline and the trade deficit to shrink . That reduced trade deficit and the resulting decline in capital inflows will lead to higher real interest rates in the US .
The higher interest rate will reduce the level of business investment and residential construction until they can be financed with the smaller volume of national saving plus the reduced capital inflows .
Although the higher level of household saving will limit the rise in US interest rates , it will not change the fact that the combination of large future fiscal deficits and foreign lenders &quot; reduced willingness to buy US securities will lead to both a lower dollar and higher US interest rates .
America &apos;s Saving Surprise
CAMBRIDGE - The household saving rate in the United States has tripled in the past three years .
Why ?
And what does it mean for the US economy and the rest of the world ?
The rapid rise in saving has reduced consumer spending , slowing the pace of GDP growth in 2009 and in early 2010 .
If the saving rate continues to rise rapidly , it could push America &apos;s fragile economy into another downturn .
That would mean lower imports , creating a potential problem for countries that depend for their employment on exporting to the US .
Higher household saving depresses consumption because it is the difference between households &quot; after @-@ tax income and what they spend .
The saving may be deposited in bank accounts or used to buy mutual funds or corporate stock .
Saving may also take the form of individual contributions to retirement accounts or employer contributions to corporate saving plans .
Paying down debt on credit cards or mortgages also counts as saving - but increases in the value of existing assets like stocks or real estate do not , even though they increase the value of household wealth .
In any year , some households are savers and others , especially retirees , are dissavers that use past saving to finance current consumption .
The nation &apos;s net household saving rate is the difference between the saving of the savers and the dissaving of the dissavers .
The recent rise in the US household saving rate reversed a long @-@ term decline that began 25 years ago .
Before that , between 1960 and 1985 , American households saved an average of 9 % of their after @-@ tax incomes .
The saving rate in each of those 25 years was between 7 % and 11 % .
But , after 1985 , a variety of changes caused saving to decline until it reached less than 2 % in 2007 .
One reason was that rising stock markets and higher house prices made individuals wealthier , reducing their need to save for retirement and allowing retirees to dissave more .
The general shift from defined @-@ benefit pension plans to defined @-@ contribution plans meant that employees felt the effect of rising share prices directly in their own personal accounts .
Moreover , the increased availability of credit cards gave Americans a greater ability to dissave , buying goods and services now and paying for them later .
Mortgages became more widely available .
Rising house prices also allowed homeowners to refinance their mortgages , obtaining additional cash to spend on other things .
Credit lines secured by home equity provided another new way to finance spending .
All of this changed abruptly when the American economy fell into a deep recession at the end of 2007 .
The stock market dropped sharply .
Home prices fell 40 % , completely wiping out the equity of one @-@ third of all homeowners with mortgages .
Household wealth is now $ 10 trillion dollars less than it was before the recession began .
That fall in wealth means that households must save more to prepare for retirement , and that retirees are not able to dissave as much as they did before .
Banks and credit @-@ card companies have become much more cautious about extending credit .
And , with unemployment stubbornly high , many households are saving in order to have additional cash if they should lose their job or be put on shorter hours .
There is no way to predict what the saving rate will do next .
Households &quot; need to rebuild wealth , and the lack of access to credit , implies that the saving rate could continue to rise from the 6.4 % recorded in June ( the most recent month for which data are available ) to the 9 % rate that America averaged in the decades before 1985 .
If that were to happen quickly , total spending could decline , pushing the economy into a double @-@ dip recession .
But if households instead become optimistic about the pace of recovery , they might choose to cut back on their saving in order to maintain consumption , despite weak earnings .
Only time will tell .
Household saving is only one part of net national saving .
Since after @-@ tax personal income accounts for about 75 % of GDP , a household saving rate of 6 % translates into just 4.5 % of GDP .
Corporate retained earnings have averaged about 3 % of GDP after allowing for depreciation of existing plant and equipment .
The combination of household and corporate saving brings total private saving to 7.5 % of GDP .
Unfortunately , government borrowing to finance its deficit over the rest of this decade is projected to absorb about 5 % of GDP .
That would leave a net national saving rate of just 2.5 % of GDP .
Such a low national saving rate would not be sufficient to finance the level of new investment in plant , equipment , and housing that the country needs .
So , despite the rise in the household saving rate , unless federal government policies change to shrink America &apos;s future budget deficits , the US will continue to be dependent on capital inflows from the rest of the world .
If that happens , global imbalances will continue to add risk to the global economy .
America \ u0027s Schizophrenic Economy
The news about America &apos;s economy that dribbled out over the first half of March painted - once again - a picture that only a schizophrenic could create .
Real investment ( investment adjusted for the declining prices of high @-@ tech and information @-@ related capital goods ) continued to roar ahead .
Production and sales were consistent with the consensus forecast of real GDP growth at an annual rate of 4 % or more .
Yet , despite all this , employment remained stagnant : net job creation in the United States continues to stall .
This does not mean that employment in America cannot grow .
Roughly 300,000 more Americans are employed in education and health care than a year ago - an annual rate of employment growth of 1.7 % .
A quarter of a million more Americans are employed in business and professional services than a year ago - a 1.6 % annual rate of employment growth .
The logic of stagnant employment is not that adding jobs to the American economy is impossible , but that demand growth is insufficient to create more jobs than are lost .
This is easy to demonstrate .
Total nominal spending in America grows at 5.5 % per year .
Inflation is 1.5 % per year . And overall productivity growth is 3.5 % per year .
So the equation is simple : 5.5 % -1.5 % -3.5 % = 0.5 % .
That 0.5 % is all that is left for job growth , because that &apos;s all the job growth required to meet demand given the remarkably strong rate of growth of productivity .
Where America &apos;s productivity growth is coming from is clear .
A relatively small part of it is coming from simple speed @-@ up : in an economy where the amount of time it takes for the unemployed to find new jobs is close to a post @-@ WWII record high , demands for speeding @-@ up the pace of work will be met with a &quot; Yes , boss ! &quot; rather than a &quot; Take this job and shove it ! &quot;
A bigger part of this increased productivity comes from the extraordinary technological revolutions in computers and communications that have led to dramatic increases in the usefulness - and decreases in the cost - of high @-@ tech capital .
The boost to wealth provided by the &quot; new economy &quot; is exceeding even its most avid boosters &apos; wildest dreams .
What is unexpected is that the new wealth is flowing not to the shareholders of dot @-@ com companies , but to purchasers and users of high @-@ tech capital and the consumers they serve .
But why does this seem so surprising ?
At the end of the nineteenth century the huge amount of investment and technological progress in America &apos;s railroads appeared to benefit everyone but the stockholders and bondholders of railroad companies , as bust followed boom and ramming worthless securities down the throats of investors became Wall Street &apos;s favorite sport .
Yet another part of US productivity growth due to the fact that high @-@ tech capital gives America &apos;s firms enormous incentives to make massive but hard to see - and even harder to measure - investments in organization and business processes that are complementary to computerization and networking .
For the US to have a rate of productivity growth of 3.5 % per annum rather than the pre @-@ 1995 rate of 1.2 % is amazing .
That means an annual increment to world income of $ 250 billion from this source alone .
That &apos;s the equivalent of adding productive power equal to a quarter of the economy of India - and adding it every year .
This persistent acceleration in American productivity growth has , however , created a massive political problem for President George W. Bush .
Demand growth at a pace that in any previous decade would have been seen as highly satisfactory is suddenly desperately insufficient , and Bush is being blamed ( with some justice ) for the slack labor market that has resulted .
But for everyone except Bush - and those left unemployed by the lag in demand - it is an extraordinary opportunity .
The remarkable boosts to productivity that have been within America &apos;s grasp will ultimately lead to accelerating growth of real profits and real wages , if only US policy makers resist the temptation to pursue politically expedient , but economically damaging , measures to &quot; protect &quot; output and employment .
As the world &apos;s leading @-@ edge economy , America faces the hardest work in ensuring growth , for it must create - not only copy and adapt - new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive business organizations .
If America can grow as fast as it is now , that is very good news for other , less @-@ developed economies , especially since one powerful effect of ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communications is to make it much easier to participate in the global division of labor now centered in the US .
So the schizophrenic American economy is a sign that the world is entering an economic era of truly wonderful things - if only we properly , and patiently , grasp them .
America &apos;s Scorched Earth Management
Signs of the American economy &apos;s perilous condition are everywhere - from yawning fiscal and current @-@ account deficits to plummeting home prices and a feeble dollar .
But something that shows up in none of the economic indicators may be driving many of them : the deterioration of American management , which is undermining not only many of America &apos;s great enterprises , but also its legendary spirit of enterprise .
Paradoxically , one indicator that has been improving steadily in the US - productivity - may be the clearest sign of the problem .
When it comes to productivity , managers either invest in employee training , more efficient manufacturing processes , and the like , or they take steps that appear to boost productivity in the short run but that erode it in the long run .
Productivity is a measure of output per hour worked .
So a company that fires all its workers and then ships from stock can look very productive - until it runs outs of stock .
Of course , no company can do that , but many US companies have been shedding workers and middle managers in great numbers - the figures for January 2008 were up 19 % from a year earlier .
Meanwhile , those employees left behind must work that much harder , often without increased compensation .
Workers &quot; wages , adjusted for inflation , fell in 2007 , continuing a trend throughout this decade .
That , too , is &quot; productive &quot; - until these overworked people quit or burn out .
A sustainable company is not a collection of &quot; human resources . &quot;
It is a community of human beings .
Its strength resides in its people , its culture , and the goodwill it has built up among its customers and suppliers .
So , as workers and middle managers have been departing these companies , they have taken with them not only much critical information , but often also the hearts and souls of their enterprises , with profound effects on American competitiveness .
Consider high technology , where America is supposed to excel .
According to a November 2006 report by The Task Force on the Future of American Innovation , made up of prominent universities , think tanks , industry trade associations , and corporations , the high @-@ tech trade deficit widened in 2005 , for the third consecutive year . This is not clothing or cars , but America &apos;s largest , and most renowned , export sector .
This deficit reflects an underlying research deficit .
Of the 25 companies granted the most US patents in 2006 , only eight were American ; 12 were Japanese .
Perhaps this helps to explain why , in a survey of more than 60,000 people in 29 countries conducted in 2007 by the New York @-@ based Reputation Institute to rank the &quot; world &apos;s most respected companies , &quot; the first US company on the list appeared in 15th place ; the second was in 25th place .
No one can determine how much of America &apos;s productivity gains in recent years have resulted from squeezing human capital , because such things are not measured .
But there has clearly been a great deal of reliance on this strategy , with companies shedding employees not only because they must , but often because they have not met Wall Street analysts &quot; financial expectations .
Managers &quot; increased focus on maximizing shareholder value won many adherents when the idea was introduced in the 1980 &quot; s : the impersonal discipline of financial markets would force companies to become more productive and innovative .
And , in fact , much of the US productivity increase in the 1980 &quot; s and 1990 &quot; s can likely be attributed to large @-@ scale investment in information and communications technology .
But , as the marginal productivity gains from such investment began to fall , senior managers &quot; survival and compensation continued to be tied to stock @-@ market performance .
As a result , many simply learned to manage their companies &quot; short @-@ term share price at the expense of attention to their products and customers .
Moreover , because maximizing shareholder value is a poor incentive for workers and middle managers , companies &quot; boards have increasingly centralized power around chief executives , thereby encouraging a &quot; heroic &quot; form of leadership that is detached from the rest of the enterprise . Indeed , in many cases , the CEO - frequently a Wall Street @-@ endorsed &quot; superstar &quot; parachuted in to &quot; shake things up &quot; - now
This shift to &quot; heroic &quot; leadership can be seen in ballooning CEO compensation .
According to a January 2008 report by the Hay Group , the CEO &apos;s of the 50 largest US companies are now paid almost three times what their European counterparts receive ­ - which is many hundreds of times more than their own workers .
Until recently , the US asset @-@ price bubble ­ - first in the stock market , then in real estate - masked the underlying depreciation of American enterprises .
But the bubble itself resulted from the same management pathologies as those afflicting the real economy .
After all , managing for the short run encouraged mortgage lenders to offer artificially low &quot; teaser &quot; interest rates to lure potential homeowners .
And then those who bought these mortgages never bothered to investigate their underlying value - a spectacular abdication of managerial responsibility .
Now that the bubble has burst , America &apos;s current economic downturn is likely to be far worse than previous ones , because US enterprises will have to be rebuilt , slowly and carefully .
The dramatic weakening of the US dollar may help America to narrow its massive trade deficit , but we should not expect any sustained improvement without drastic changes in American management .
Fortunately , it may be possible to minimize the fallout for the rest of the world .
While American economists , politicians , and business leaders have for years sought to sell their model of management abroad , many companies elsewhere have not been buying it .
As a result , other key economies remain healthier than America &apos;s .
Make no mistake : this problem was made in America , and that is where it will have to be solved .
America \ u0027s Second Gilded Age
The richest Congressional district in the US is the so @-@ called &quot; silk @-@ stocking &quot; district of New York City &apos;s Upper East Side , with a per @-@ capita income of $ 41,151 per year .
The poorest Congressional district is a largely Hispanic @-@ immigrant district in Los Angeles , with a per @-@ capita income of $ 6,997 a year .
In 1973 the poorest fifth of America &apos;s families had incomes that averaged $ 13,240 a year ( in today &apos;s dollars ) ; in 2000 the average incomes of the poorest fifth were the same : $ 13,320 .
By contrast , the richest 5 % of America &apos;s families in 1973 had an average income of $ 149,150 , and in 2000 the richest 5 % had an average income of $ 254,840 .
The increase in inequality was large enough to give a 2 / 3 income boost to the well @-@ off over a time when incomes in the middle grew by only 10 % and incomes at the bottom not at all .
To outsiders , the most peculiar thing about America &apos;s rising inequality is that so few Americans object .
Surely a society with a skewed income distribution is worse off than one in which incomes are more equal .
An extra $ 10,000 a year does little to raise the well @-@ being of a multi @-@ millionaire , while a deficiency of $ 10,000 a year makes a huge impact on how a middle @-@ class family lives .
If you follow Nobel Prize @-@ winner James Buchanan &apos;s utilitarian principle that you should evaluate a society &apos;s social welfare by imagining that you have an equal chance of being poor and rich , it is easy to judge that the more equal society has a better set of social and economic arrangements .
From there it is easy to make the leap to the position that - so long as redistributive taxes don &apos;t slow economic growth - when inequality rises , it is the government &apos;s duty to tax the rich and transfer money to the poor to offset the rise .
Yet there are no calls in mainstream politics to sharply increase the progressiveness of the income tax .
Indeed , even at the left end of mainstream discourse , the boldest call is for the well @-@ off merely to contribute their &quot; fair share &quot; to paying for the costs of government .
One candidate for the Senate in the recent US elections , Erskine Bowles of North Carolina ( a former chief of staff to President Clinton ) was judged bold and foolhardy not for proposing redistributive tax increases , but simply for placing a higher priority on the federal government paying for prescription medicines than on a further cut in the highest marginal tax rate .
What happened ?
Bowles lost .
Virtually no mainstream American politician seems opposed to eliminating the estate tax - a policy move that will further concentrate wealth for no countervailing supply @-@ side gain .
As Clinton &apos;s Assistant to the President for Economic Policy Gene Sperling once wrote , staff aides who tell Congressmen that estate tax repeal ... &quot; costing tens of billions of dollars ... will benefit only a few thousand families &quot; are answered &quot; maybe so , but I think I met every one of them at my last fundraiser . &quot;
It &apos;s not the case that the striking increase in income inequality was necessary to deliver rapid economic growth .
Most of the increase took place , after all , between 1973 and 1995 - a period during which American economic growth was slower than in any other period since the Great Depression .
It &apos;s not the case that income gains in the middle have been large enough to make mainstream voters feel generous about what is happening among their merchant princes : save for the past half @-@ decade , income gains away from the top have been so meager that it &apos;s hard to argue that people are living much better than their parents did .
So why don &apos;t Americans feel more alarm at their country &apos;s rising income inequality ?
Part of the reason that they don &apos;t is that most Americans do not recognize what is going on .
One poll found that 19 % of Americans think their incomes put them in the top 1 % of income distribution - and that 20 % more hope to reach the top 1 % someday .
Deep in the core of American ideology and culture is a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : belief that the future will be brighter than the present ; that what you accomplish you make with your own hands ; that individuals should rely on themselves , not the state ; that people can cross oceans and mountains to make for themselves a better life ; and that those who succeed do so not through luck and corruption but through preparation and industry .
These are not beliefs conducive to social democracy .
For two generations starting in 1933 America did look a lot like a west European @-@ style social democracy .
The shock of the Great Depression and the response of Roosevelt &apos;s New Deal probably accounts for the shockingly &quot; un @-@ American &quot; attitude toward redistribution of that era .
But somebody ten years old when Franklin Roosevelt was elected is now eighty .
Memories of the Great Depression are dying out .
So what now seems likely is that the older and more enduring - call it the Gilded Age - pattern of American ideology , culture , and political economy is reasserting itself .
Inequality , it seems , is as American as apple pie .
America &apos;s Self @-@ Defeating Hegemony
When I wrote about the &quot; end of history &quot; almost twenty years ago , one thing that I did not anticipate was the degree to which American behavior and misjudgments would make anti @-@ Americanism one of the chief fault @-@ lines of global politics .
And yet , particularly since the terrorist attacks of September 11 , 2001 , that is precisely what has happened , owing to four key mistakes made by the Bush administration .
First , the doctrine of &quot; preemption , &quot; which was devised in response to the 2001 attacks , was inappropriately broadened to include Iraq and other so @-@ called &quot; rogue states &quot; that threatened to develop weapons of mass destruction .
To be sure , preemption is fully justified vis @-@ à @-@ vis stateless terrorists wielding such weapons .
But it cannot be the core of a general non @-@ proliferation policy , whereby the United States intervenes militarily everywhere to prevent the development of nuclear weapons .
The cost of executing such a policy simply would be too high ( several hundred billion dollars and tens of thousands of casualties in Iraq and still counting ) .
This is why the Bush administration has shied away from military confrontations with North Korea and Iran , despite its veneration of Israel &apos;s air strike on Iraq &apos;s Osirak reactor in 1981 , which set back Saddam Hussein &apos;s nuclear program by several years .
After all , the very success of that attack meant that such limited intervention could never be repeated , because would @-@ be proliferators learned to bury , hide , or duplicate their nascent weapons programs .
The second important miscalculation concerned the likely global reaction to America &apos;s exercise of its hegemonic power .
Many people within the Bush administration believed that even without approval by the UN Security Council or NATO , American power would be legitimized by its successful use .
This had been the pattern for many US initiatives during the Cold War , and in the Balkans during the 1990 &quot; s ; back then , it was known as &quot; leadership &quot; rather than &quot; unilateralism . &quot;
But , by the time of the Iraq war , conditions had changed : the US had grown so powerful relative to the rest of the world that the lack of reciprocity became an intense source of irritation even to America &apos;s closest allies .
The structural anti @-@ Americanism arising from the global distribution of power was evident well before the Iraq war , in the opposition to American @-@ led globalization during the Clinton years .
But it was exacerbated by the Bush administration &apos;s &quot; in @-@ your @-@ face &quot; disregard for a variety of international institutions as soon it came into office - a pattern that continued through the onset of the Iraq war .
America &apos;s third mistake was to overestimate how effective conventional military power would be in dealing with the weak states and networked transnational organizations that characterize international politics , at least in the broader Middle East .
It is worth pondering why a country with more military power than any other in human history , and that spends as much on its military as virtually the rest of the world combined , cannot bring security to a small country of 24 million people after more than three years of occupation .
At least part of the problem is that it is dealing with complex social forces that are not organized into centralized hierarchies that can enforce rules , and thus be deterred , coerced , or otherwise manipulated through conventional power .
Israel made a similar mistake in thinking that it could use its enormous margin of conventional military power to destroy Hezbollah in last summer &apos;s Lebanon War .
Both Israel and the US are nostalgic for a twentieth @-@ century world of nation @-@ states , which is understandable , since that is the world to which the kind of conventional power they possess is best suited .
But nostalgia has led both states to misinterpret the challenges they now face , whether by linking al @-@ Qaeda to Saddam Hussein &apos;s Iraq , or Hezbollah to Iran and Syria .
This linkage does exist in the case of Hezbollah , but the networked actors have their own social roots and are not simply pawns used by regional powers .
This is why the exercise of conventional power has become frustrating .
Finally , the Bush administration &apos;s use of power has lacked not only a compelling strategy or doctrine , but also simple competence .
In Iraq alone , the administration misestimated the threat of WMD , failed to plan adequately for the occupation , and then proved unable to adjust quickly when things went wrong .
To this day , it has dropped the ball on very straightforward operational issues in Iraq , such as funding democracy promotion efforts .
Incompetence in implementation has strategic consequences .
Many of the voices that called for , and then bungled , military intervention in Iraq are now calling for war with Iran .
Why should the rest of the world think that conflict with a larger and more resolute enemy would be handled any more capably ?
But the fundamental problem remains the lopsided distribution of power in the international system .
Any country in the same position as the US , even a democracy , would be tempted to exercise its hegemonic power with less and less restraint .
America &apos;s founding fathers were motivated by a similar belief that unchecked power , even when democratically legitimated , could be dangerous , which is why they created a constitutional system of internally separated powers to limit the executive .
Such a system does not exist on a global scale today , which may explain how America got into such trouble .
A smoother international distribution of power , even in a global system that is less than fully democratic , would pose fewer temptations to abandon the prudent exercise of power .
America &apos;s Self @-@ Inflicted Decline
MELBOURNE - If the broad post @-@ World War II prosperity that has endured for six decades comes to an end , both the United States and Europe will be responsible .
With rare exceptions , politics has become a discredited profession throughout the West .
Tomorrow is always treated as more important than next week , and next week prevails over next year , with no one seeking to secure the long @-@ term future .
Now the West is paying the price .
President Barack Obama &apos;s instincts may be an exception here , but he is fighting powerful hidebound forces in the United States , as well as a demagogic populism , in the form of the Tea Party , that is far worse - and that might defeat him in 2012 , seriously damaging America in the process .
America &apos;s friends around the world watched with dismay the recent brawl in over raising the federal government &apos;s debt ceiling , and the US Congress &apos;s inability to come to anything like a balanced and forward @-@ looking compromise .
On the contrary , the outcome represents a significant victory for the Tea Party &apos;s minions , whose purpose seems to be to reduce government obligations and expenditures to a bare minimum ( some object even to having a central bank ) , and to maintain President George W. Bush &apos;s outrageous tax breaks for the wealthy .
America &apos;s current fiscal problems are rooted in a long period of unfunded spending .
Bush &apos;s wars in Afghanistan and Iraq , and the manner in which he conducted the &quot; global war on terror &quot; made matters much worse , contributing to a totally unsustainable situation .
Indeed , Obama inherited an almost impossible legacy .
In the weeks since the debt ceiling agreement , it has become increasingly clear that good government might be impossible in the US .
The coming months of campaigning for the US presidency will be spent in petty brawling over what should be cut .
The example of recent weeks gives us no cause for optimism that US legislators will rise above partisan politics and ask themselves what is best for America .
In these circumstances , it is not surprising that financial markets have returned to extreme volatility .
The expenditure cuts mandated by the outcome of the debt @-@ ceiling debate will reduce economic activity , thereby undermining growth and making debt reduction even more difficult .
Providing further fiscal stimulus to boost economic growth would carry its own risks , owing to the debt ceiling and another , more ominous factor : America is already overly indebted , and there are signs that major holders of US government securities are finally tired of being repaid in depreciated currency .
Most importantly , China &apos;s call for the introduction of a new reserve currency stems from its frustration with the failure of major governments - whether in the US or Europe - to govern their economic affairs with realism and good sense .
China recognizes that America is in great difficulty ( indeed , it recognizes this more clearly than the US itself ) , and that , given the poisonous political atmosphere prevailing in Washington , there will be no easy return to good government , economic stability , and strong growth .
America &apos;s leadership in world affairs began to weaken with the unilateralism of Bush , and today &apos;s economic problems are reinforcing this tendency .
To reverse America &apos;s decline , Obama needs bipartisan support for his ( quite mainstream ) policies , but so far the US Congress has shown no stomach for a principled approach to its legislative duties .
If Germany &apos;s half @-@ hearted efforts to stabilize Europe somehow turn out to be successful , America &apos;s position will be further eroded , and central banks around the world will begin to regard the euro once again as a reliable alternative to the dollar as a reserve currency .
The alternative , as China has suggested , would be to develop a new reserve currency .
These realities represent a power shift of a kind that we have not experienced in our lifetimes .
China &apos;s economic power over the US is now substantial , and will limit not only America &apos;s influence in the financial markets , but also its capacity to use military power .
If this forces America back towards what the international @-@ relations scholar Joseph Nye calls &quot; soft power and multilateral diplomacy , &quot; it may well be a good thing .
But such approaches are anathema to the US Republican Party , and to its Tea Party faction in particular , and they might unnerve the many Asians who are nervous at China &apos;s growing military might .
The counter @-@ argument - that any sell @-@ off or failure by China to continue to buy US government securities would hurt China as much as America - is not valid .
As each year passes , China &apos;s markets expand worldwide , and its domestic market comes to represent a greater percentage of its own GDP .
As a result , China will not need a strong dollar in the long term .
Americans need to get their economic house in order before China loses its incentive to support the dollar .
On several occasions in the post @-@ WWII period , the US has learned with great pain that there are limits to the effective use of military power .
American objectives could not be achieved in Vietnam .
The outcome in Iraq will not be determined until the last American troops have been withdrawn .
In Afghanistan , where withdrawal dates have already been set , it is difficult to believe that a cohesive unified state can be established .
As the efficacy of military power is reduced , so the importance of economic power grows .
Recognition of these central realities - and bipartisanship in addressing them - is critical for America &apos;s future , and that of the West .
America &apos;s Sleeping Watch Dog
I want to deviate from my usual economic theme this month and focus instead on the system by which the press - mostly the American press - covers government nowadays .
But perhaps this is not too great a deviation , for the behavior of the press affects not only politics , but economics as well .
Consider an editorial written in March by the Washington Post &apos;s editorial director , Fred Hiatt , in which he makes a very small and limited apology for the newspaper &apos;s coverage and evaluation of the Bush administration .
According to Hiatt , &quot; We raised such issues &quot; as whether the Bush administration had properly thought its proposed adventure in Iraq through , &quot; but with insufficient force . &quot; In other words , Hiatt finds fault with himself and his organization for saying the right thing , but not loudly enough .
Next , consider a comment by the former editor of the New York Times , Max Frankel , about how the Washington ecology of media leaks is healthy , because &quot; most reporters do not just lazily regurgitate ... leaks . &quot; Instead , &quot; they use them as wedges to pry out other secrets &quot; and so oversee the government .
The system may be &quot; sloppy and breed confusion , &quot; but &quot; tolerating abusive leaks by government &#91; that misinform &#93; is the price that society has to pay for the benefit of receiving essential leaks about government . &quot;
So , where Hiatt sees a press corps that was a little too cowardly about overseeing the Bush administration , Frankel sees a press corps where a sloppy and confusing process is nevertheless doing a reasonable job .
I see a very different picture .
It was the summer of 2000 when I began asking Republicans I know - generally people who might be natural candidates for various sub @-@ cabinet policy positions in a Republican administration - how worried they were that the Republican presidential candidate , George W. Bush , was clearly not up to the job .
They were not worried , they told me , that Bush was inadequately briefed and strangely incurious for a man who sought the most powerful office in the world .
One of President Clinton &apos;s problems , they said , was that the ceremonial portions of the job bored him - and thus he got himself into big trouble .
Look at how Bush had operated as president of the Texas Rangers baseball club , they said .
Bush let the managers manage the team and the financial guys run the business .
He spent his time making sure the political coalition to support the Texas Rangers in the style to which it wanted to be accustomed remained stable .
Bush knows his strengths and weaknesses , they told me .
He will focus on being America &apos;s Queen Elizabeth II , and will let people like Colin Powell and Paul O &apos;Neill be America &apos;s Tony Blair and Gordon Brown .
By the summer of 2001 , it had become clear that something had gone very wrong .
By that point , Bush had rejected O &apos;Neill &apos;s and Christine Todd Whitman &apos;s advice on environmental policy , just as he had rejected Alan Greenspan &apos;s and O &apos;Neill &apos;s advice on fiscal policy , Powell &apos;s and Condoleezza Rice &apos;s advice on the importance of pushing forward on negotiations between Israel and Palestine , and - as we learned later - George Tenet &apos;s and Richard Clarke &apos;s advice about the importance of counterterrorism .
A strange picture of Bush emerged from conversations with sub @-@ cabinet administration appointees , their friends , and their friends of friends .
He was not just under @-@ briefed , but also lazy : he insisted on remaining under @-@ briefed .
He was not just incurious , but also arrogant : he insisted on making uninformed decisions , and hence made decisions that were essentially random .
And he was stubborn : once he had made a decision - even , or rather especially , if it was glaringly wrong and stupid - he would never revisit it .
So , by the summer of 2001 , a pattern was set that would lead British observer Daniel Davies to ask if there was a Bush administration policy on anything of even moderate importance that had not been completely bollixed up .
But if you relied on either the Washington Post or the New York Times , you would have had a very hard time seeing it .
Today , it is an accepted fact that the kindest thing you can say about the Bush administration is that it is completely incompetent , which is the line now taken by hard @-@ line Bush supporters like the National Review and the commentator Robert Novak .
Why didn &apos;t the American press corps cover the Bush administration properly for its first five years ?
I really do not know .
I do know that the world cannot afford to rely again on America &apos;s press for its information : fool me once , shame on you ; fool me twice , shame on me .
So I appeal to all of you working for newspapers , radio , and television stations outside the United States : it is to you that we - including those of us in America - must look to discover what our own government is doing .
America &apos;s Sputnik Moment in Beijing
NEW YORK - August 8 , 2008 , may someday be remembered as the first day of the post @-@ American era .
Or it could be remembered as another &quot; Sputnik moment , &quot; when , as with the Soviet foray into outer space in 1957 , the American people realized that the country had lost its footing and decided it was time for the United States to get its act together .
There was no mistaking the power and symbolism of the opening ceremonies for the Beijing Olympic Games on August 8 .
That multimedia spectacular did far more than trace China &apos;s 5,000 @-@ year history ; it was a statement that China is a major civilization that demands and deserves its rightful place in the global hierarchy .
There was also no mistaking the symbolism of seeing President Bush , waving cheerfully from his spot in the bleachers while Chinese President Hu Jintao sat behind what looked more like a throne .
It is hard to imagine that China &apos;s government , which obsesses over every minute issue of diplomatic protocol , had not orchestrated this stark image of America &apos;s decline relative to the country to which it owes $ 1.4 trillion .
It would be hard to imagine Franklin Roosevelt or Ronald Reagan accepting a similar relative position .
At the very same time that Bush was waving from the stands , Russia was invading Georgia , America &apos;s closest partner in the Caucasus .
Russia &apos;s message to other West @-@ leaning countries in the former Soviet world was clear : America cannot protect you .
Frighteningly , the Russians were likely correct .
While the Iraq quagmire has made it difficult for America to project force around the world , America &apos;s growing debt , conflicts with friends and enemies alike , absence of any perceivable strategy for changing times , and its political system &apos;s seeming inability to take action to address these challenges have combined to turn America into a struggling giant .
Today , from Iran to Darfur to Zimbabwe to Georgia , the world is witnessing the effects of a budding post @-@ American world , and the picture does not look pretty .
As much as we all value the rise of new powers like China and India , it remains to be seen whether these countries will become as benevolent a power as America , however flawed , has been over the past half @-@ century .
Neo @-@ colonialism is returning to Africa , the global project of human rights is in retreat , and the world trade system is becoming far less open .
Brutal dictators go unpunished because their interests are protected by large powers with stakes in their natural resources .
Reversing this trend is not only in America &apos;s interest , but also in the world &apos;s interest .
To do so , Americans must identify and address the great challenges the United States faces , starting from the ground up .
Fixing America &apos;s campaign finance structure , which leads to massive misallocations of government funds , resuscitating America &apos;s wildly uneven and often moribund education system , building an immigration system that actively recruits the most talented people from around the world via a fast track to US citizenship , and developing a national energy policy that moves the US far more quickly toward energy independence would all be important steps in this direction .
Working to rebuild the traditional bipartisan foreign @-@ policy consensus would also make the US a far more predictable partner to friends and allies around the world .
And America must be a respectful partner in order to encourage rising powers like India and China to play more constructive roles in international affairs .
The world is not ready for the post @-@ American era , and countries like China and India must play a far greater role in strengthening the existing institutions of world peace and , where appropriate , building new ones that can promote a positive agenda of security , dignity , rights , and prosperity across the globe .
The world community is not there yet , and until it is , the world needs a new kind of American leader - a leader able to inspire Americans to fix their problems at home and work with partners across the globe in promoting a common agenda as bold and progressive as the order built from the ashes of World War II 60 years ago .
The Beijing Olympics could be remembered as a new &quot; Sputnik moment &quot; for the US , inspiring the country to meaningfully face the music of a changing world .
But America can make it so only by recognizing the great challenges it faces and taking bold steps towards addressing them , at home and with allies abroad .
America &apos;s Perilous Pivot
MADRID - The Pacific or the Middle East ?
For the United States , that is now the primary strategic question .
The violence in Gaza , coming as President Barack Obama was meeting Asia &apos;s leaders in Phnom Penh , perfectly encapsulates America &apos;s dilemma .
Instead of being able to focus on US foreign policy &apos;s &quot; pivot &quot; to Asia , Obama was forced to spend many hours in conversation with the leaders of Egypt and Israel , and to dispatch Secretary of State Hillary Clinton from Asia , in order to facilitate a cease @-@ fire in Gaza .
Of the two geopolitical focal points demanding America &apos;s attention , one represents the future and the other the past .
Whereas Asia played an important role in a US presidential election campaign that was marked by often @-@ heated references to China &apos;s rise , the Middle East has kept the US bogged down for decades .
In addition to the eternal Israel @-@ Palestine conflict , Iraq &apos;s instability , the Arab Spring , Syria &apos;s civil war , and the ongoing nuclear standoff with Iran all demand America &apos;s attention .
If the Iran crisis were to boil over , the pivot to Asia would no longer be America &apos;s main foreign @-@ policy priority .
But if the dispute with Iran is resolved diplomatically , the Middle East might , perhaps , be relegated to a position of lesser importance , as Obama clearly desires .
The question , therefore , is whether the US will find itself drawn into another war in a region on which it depends less and less for energy .
Indeed , the revolution in non @-@ conventional hydrocarbons , particularly shale gas and oil , which the International Energy Agency recently predicted would make the US the world &apos;s largest oil producer by 2020 , and the top energy producer overall by 2030 , will have enormous global repercussions .
For the US , energy self @-@ sufficiency is the perfect excuse for a phased withdrawal from the Middle East ; freed from energy dependency , America should be able to concentrate on the Pacific .
Although maintaining stable global energy prices and its alliance with Israel means that the US cannot cut itself off completely from the Middle East &apos;s troubles , the shift in focus to Asia began early in Obama &apos;s first administration , with Clinton announcing America &apos;s strategic reorientation even before US troops began withdrawing from Iraq .
Following his re @-@ election , Obama &apos;s first foreign visit was to Myanmar , Thailand , and Cambodia - a choice that cannot have pleased China , as all three are ASEAN members , while Myanmar was , until it began its democratic transition , a close Chinese ally .
Asia is , of course , experiencing rapid economic growth , but managing the region &apos;s strong nationalist tensions calls for the creation of regional security structures , together with closer economic integration .
Complicating matters even more is what US scholar Kenneth Lieberthal and Wang Jisi , the dean of international studies at Peking University , called in a recent paper for the Brookings Institution &quot; strategic distrust . &quot;
Cultivating strategic trust between the twenty @-@ first century &apos;s leading powers will be fundamental to the international system &apos;s harmonious functioning .
But how can this be achieved ?
As China will be importing three @-@ quarters of its oil from the Middle East by 2020 , one step forward would be China &apos;s cooperation in finding solutions to the region &apos;s problems .
After the January 2013 Israeli elections , Iran will again move to the top of Obama &apos;s foreign @-@ policy agenda .
Military intervention in Iran - which itself will be holding a presidential election in June - would incite not only regional , but global , instability .
The Arab world , Russia , and China would be forced to take sides , straining global relations between the different poles of power and raising tensions in the Pacific .
So China has a large strategic interest in working with the US to avoid a showdown .
Beyond Iran , the volatile situation throughout the Middle East urgently demands solutions .
The latest eruption of violent conflict between Hamas and Israel underscores the importance of reviving the peace process .
Syria &apos;s civil war , in which a growing number of regional players have become involved , is beginning to look increasingly like a trial run for all @-@ out war between Sunni Muslims ( Saudi Arabia and the other Gulf States , Turkey , and Egypt ) and Shia Muslims ( Iran and Hezbollah ) for regional dominance .
Iran &apos;s leaders appear to believe that the US , having incurred extremely high economic and human costs from more than a decade of war , would rather avoid another military intervention .
US public opinion seems to confirm this .
A recent survey by the Chicago Council on Global Affairs indicated that 67 % of Americans believe that the Iraq war was not worthwhile .
Moreover , 69 % do not believe that the US is safer from terrorism since the war in Afghanistan , and 71 % say that the experience in Iraq shows that the US should take greater care in how it uses force .
But , if Americans seem unlikely to be willing to invest billions of dollars in another dead @-@ end foreign adventure , Iran &apos;s leaders , for their part , are increasingly hemmed in by international sanctions , which are beginning to wreak havoc on the country &apos;s economy .
Both sides may believe that their best option - at least for now - is to negotiate .
Peaceful resolution of the Iranian question would help the US to complete its shift toward Asia .
China may not wish for that outcome , but its own vital interest in the security of Middle East energy supplies should compel it to cooperate .
After all , another Middle East conflict would poison and distort relations in the region for decades , which would be the worst of all possible consequences - for the US and China alike .
America &apos;s Suicidal Statecraft
Since its victory in the Cold War , America &apos;s global hegemony has rested on three pillars : economic power , military might , and a vast capacity to export its popular culture .
The recent emergence of additional powers - the European Union , China , India , and a Russia driven to recover its lost status - has eroded America &apos;s capacity to shape events unilaterally .
Even so , America remains by far the world &apos;s most powerful country ; its decline has more to do with its incompetent use of power than with the emergence of competitors .
It is American leaders &quot; &quot; suicidal statecraft , &quot; to use Arnold Toynbee &apos;s pithy phrase for what he considered the ultimate cause of imperial collapse , that is to blame for America &apos;s plight .
Consider the Middle East .
Nothing reveals the decline of the United States in the region better than the contrast between America &apos;s sober use of power in the first Gulf War in 1991 and the hubris and deceit of today &apos;s Iraq war .
In 1991 , America forged the most formidable international coalition since World War II , and led it in a fully legitimate war aimed at restoring regional balance after Saddam Hussein &apos;s invasion of Kuwait .
In 2003 , America went to war without its trans @-@ Atlantic allies after manipulating false assertions .
In doing so , the US embarked on a preposterous grand strategy that aimed no less at simultaneously dismantling Iraq &apos;s tyrannical regime , restructuring the entire Middle East , destroying al @-@ Qaeda , and helping democracy to take root throughout the Arab world .
The result has been utter failure : military defeat and a severe degradation of America &apos;s moral standing .
Rather than undermining radical Islam , the US has legitimized it , in Iraq and beyond .
Indeed , what will now shape the future of the region is not democracy , but the violent divide between Shiites and Sunnis that the Iraq war precipitated .
It is this Muslim civil war that is allowing al @-@ Qaeda to gain a larger pool of recruits .
With Iraq probably becoming the first Arab country to be ruled by Shiites , and hence integrated into an expanding Shiite Iranian empire , America &apos;s Sunni allies in the region now view the US as unreliable .
Indeed , the US is seen as practically complicit in inciting a monumental reversal of Islam &apos;s fortunes , the Shia revival .
Nor is the gospel of democracy especially dear to America &apos;s Arab allies , for the call to democratize has only emboldened the Islamists to challenge the incumbent elites for power .
Admittedly , violent Islamic fundamentalism has deeper roots in the fading promise of Arab nationalism .
But America &apos;s misbegotten democratic message has ended up alienating both its conservative regional allies , as it gave a new lease on life to political Islam , which can use the ballot box as a route to power , and the Islamists , whose electoral gains are then rejected by the US .
America &apos;s biggest strategic blunder in the Middle East arguably concerns the emergence of Iranian power .
By destroying Iraq as a counterbalancing regional force , the US dealt a major blow to its traditional Gulf allies , for whom Iraq served as a barrier against Iran &apos;s ambitions .
America offered Iran on a silver platter strategic assets that Khomeini &apos;s revolution failed to acquire either in eight years of war against Saddam or in its abortive attempts to export the Islamic revolution throughout the region .
Likewise , Iran &apos;s nuclear program gained momentum thanks to its sense of impunity following the colossal failure in Iraq of America &apos;s concept of &quot; preventive war . &quot;
The calamitous US military experience in Iraq has left it strategically diminished .
Iraq has now become God &apos;s playground , and America can hope to achieve a modicum of stability there only with the help of other regional powers .
Nevertheless , the US will remain the most influential external actor in the Middle East , for its failure is one of leadership , not of actual power .
Humbled by military defeat , America can recover its regional relevance only by avoiding the sin of hubris , and learning to lead without attempting to dominate .
This requires engaging revolutionary forces like Iran and Syria ; respecting , rather than ostracizing , those Islamist movements that have opted out from jihadism in favor of political participation ; and leading an international alliance for an Arab @-@ Israeli peace based on the Arab League initiative .
Indeed , the paradox of America &apos;s pernicious policies in Iraq is that they have created favorable conditions for an Arab @-@ Israeli peace , as the emergence of Iran and the threat of a fundamentalist tsunami have focused Arab minds on the urgency of a settlement with Israel .
The Palestinian issue is not the source of all the Middle East &apos;s ills , but its resolution would dramatically improve America &apos;s standing among Arabs .
More importantly , it would deny Iran the ability to link popular Islamic and Arab causes with its own hegemonic ambitions .
America &apos;s Threat to Trans @-@ Pacific Trade
MUMBAI - As if undermining the World Trade Organization &apos;s Doha Round of global free @-@ trade talks was not bad enough ( the last ministerial meeting in Geneva produced barely a squeak ) , the United States has compounded its folly by actively promoting the Trans @-@ Pacific Partnership ( TPP ) .
President Barack Obama announced this with nine Asian countries during his recent trip to the region .
The TPP is being sold in the US to a compliant media and unsuspecting public as evidence of American leadership on trade .
But the opposite is true , and it is important that those who care about the global trading system know what is happening .
One hopes that this knowledge will trigger what I call the &quot; Dracula effect &quot; : expose that which would prefer to remain hidden to sunlight and it will shrivel up and die .
The TPP is a testament to the ability of US industrial lobbies , Congress , and presidents to obfuscate public policy .
It is widely understood today that free @-@ trade agreements ( FTAs ) , whether bilateral or plurilateral ( among more than two countries but fewer than all ) are built on discrimination .
That is why economists typically call them preferential @-@ trade agreements ( PTAs ) .
And that is why the US government &apos;s public @-@ relations machine calls what is in fact a discriminatory plurilateral FTA , a &quot; partnership &quot; invoking a false aura of cooperation and cosmopolitanism .
Countries are , in principle , free to join the TPP .
Japan and Canada have said they plan to do so .
But a closer look reveals that China is not a part of this agenda .
The TPP is also a political response to China &apos;s new aggressiveness , built therefore in a spirit of confrontation and containment , not of cooperation .
The US has been establishing a template for its PTAs that includes several items unrelated to trade .
So it is no surprise that the TPP template includes numerous agendas unrelated to trade , such as labor standards and restraints on the use of capital @-@ account controls , many of which preclude China &apos;s accession .
From the outset , the TPP &apos;s supposed openness has been wholly misleading .
Towards this end , the TPP was negotiated with the weaker countries like Vietnam , Singapore , and New Zealand , which were easily bamboozled into accepting such conditions .
Only then were bigger countries like Japan offered membership on a &quot; take it or leave it &quot; basis .
The PR machine then went into overdrive by calling the inclusion of these extraneous conditions as making the TPP a &quot; high @-@ quality &quot; trade agreement for the twenty @-@ first century , when in fact it was a rip @-@ off by several domestic lobbies .
American regionalism closer to home shows the US now trying to promote the Free Trade Agreement of the Americas ( FTAA ) .
But its preferred template was to expand the North America Free Trade Agreement ( Canada , Mexico , and the US ) to the Andean countries and include huge doses of non @-@ trade @-@ related issues , which they swallowed .
This was not acceptable to Brazil , the leading force behind the FTAA , which focuses exclusively on trade issues .
Brazil &apos;s former President Luiz Lula Inácio da Silva , one of the world &apos;s great trade @-@ union leaders , rejected the inclusion of labor standards in trade treaties and institutions .
The result of US efforts in South America , therefore , has been to fragment the region into two blocs , and the same is likely to happen in Asia .
Ever since the US realized that it had chosen the wrong region to be regional with , it has been trying to win a seat at the Asian table .
The US finally got it with the TPP , simply because China had become aggressive in asserting its territorial claims in the South China Sea , the South China Sea , and vis @-@ à @-@ vis India and Japan .
Many Asian countries joined the TPP to &quot; keep the US in the region &quot; in the face of Chinese heavy @-@ handedness .
They embraced the US in the same way that East Europeans rushed to join NATO and the European Union in the face of the threat , real or imagined , posed by post @-@ Soviet Russia .
America &apos;s design for Asian trade is inspired by the goal of containing China , and the TPP template effectively excludes it , owing to the non @-@ trade @-@ related conditions imposed by US lobbies .
The only way that a Chinese merger with the TPP could gain credibility would be to make all non @-@ trade @-@ related provisions optional .
Of course , the US lobbies would have none of it .
America &apos;s Three Deficits
BERKELEY - This year began with a series of reports providing tantalizing evidence that economic recovery in the United States is strengthening .
The pace of job creation has increased , indicators for manufacturing and services have improved , and consumption spending has been stronger than anticipated .
But it is too early to celebrate .
Output growth in the US remains anemic , and the economy continues to face three significant deficits : a jobs deficit , an investment deficit , and a long @-@ run fiscal deficit , none of which is likely to be addressed in an election year .
Although output is now higher than it was in the fourth quarter of 2007 , it remains far below what could be produced if labor and capacity were fully utilized .
That gap - between actual and potential output - is estimated at more than 7 % of GDP ( more than $ 1 trillion ) .
The output gap reflects a deficit of more than 12 million jobs - the number of jobs needed to return to the economy &apos;s peak 2007 employment level and absorb the 125,000 people who enter the labor force each month .
Even if the economy grows at 2.5 % in 2012 , as most forecasts anticipate , the jobs deficit will remain - and will not be closed until 2024 .
America &apos;s jobs deficit is primarily the result of inadequate aggregate demand .
Consumption , which accounts for about 70 % of total spending , is constrained by high unemployment , weak wage gains , and a steep decline in home values and consumer wealth .
The uptick in consumption in the last months of 2011 was financed by a decline in the household saving rate and a large increase in consumer credit .
Neither of these trends is healthy or sustainable .
With an unemployment rate of 8.5 % , a labor @-@ force participation rate of only 64 % , and stagnant real wages , labor income has fallen to an historic low of 44 % of national income .
And labor income is the most important component of household earnings , the major driver of consumption spending .
Even before the Great Recession , American workers and households were in trouble .
The rate of job growth between 2000 and 2007 slowed to only half its level in the three preceding decades .
Productivity growth was strong , but far outpaced wage growth , and workers &quot; real hourly compensation declined , on average , even for those with a university education .
Indeed , the 2002 @-@ 2007 period was the only recovery on record during which the median family &apos;s real income declined .
Moreover , job opportunities continued to polarize , with employment growing in high @-@ wage professional , technical , and managerial occupations , as well as in low @-@ wage food @-@ service , personal @-@ care , and protective @-@ service occupations .
By contrast , employment in middle @-@ skill , white @-@ collar , and blue @-@ collar occupations fell , particularly in manufacturing .
Hard @-@ pressed American households slashed their savings rates , borrowed against their home equity , and increased their debt to maintain consumption , contributing to the housing and credit bubbles that burst in 2008 , requiring painful deleveraging ever since .
Three forces have driven the US labor market &apos;s adverse structural changes :
· &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; Skill @-@ biased technological change , which has automated routine work while boosting demand for highly educated workers with at least a college degree .
· &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; Global competition and the integration of labor markets through trade and outsourcing , which have eliminated jobs and depressed wages .
· &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; &amp; nbsp ; America &apos;s declining competitiveness as an attractive place to locate production and employment .
Technological change and globalization have created similar labor @-@ market challenges in other developed countries .
But US policy choices are responsible for the erosion of America &apos;s competitiveness .
In particular , the US is underinvesting in three major areas that help countries to create and retain high @-@ wage jobs : skills and training , infrastructure , and research and development .
Spending in these areas accounts for less than 10 % of US government spending , and this share has been declining over time .
The federal government can currently borrow at record @-@ low interest rates , and there are many projects in education , infrastructure , and research that would earn a higher return , create jobs now , and bolster US competitiveness in attracting high @-@ wage jobs .
President Barack Obama has offered numerous proposals to invest in the foundations of national competitiveness , but Congressional Republicans have rebuffed them , claiming that the US faces an impending fiscal crisis .
In fact , the federal deficit as a share of GDP will shrink significantly over the next several years , even without further deficit @-@ reduction measures , before rising to unsustainable levels by 2030 .
The US does indeed face a long @-@ run fiscal deficit , largely the result of rising health @-@ care costs and an aging population .
But the current fiscal deficit mainly reflects weak tax revenues , owing to slow growth and high unemployment , and temporary stimulus measures that are fading away at a time when aggregate demand remains weak and additional fiscal stimulus is warranted .
At the very least , to keep the economy on course for 2.5 % growth this year , the payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits proposed by Obama should be extended through the end of the year .
These measures would provide insurance to the fragile recovery and add nothing to the long @-@ run fiscal gap .
So , how should the US economy &apos;s jobs deficit , investment deficit , and long @-@ run fiscal deficit be addressed ?
Policymakers should pair fiscal measures to ameliorate the jobs and investment deficits now with a multi @-@ year plan to reduce the long @-@ run fiscal deficit gradually .
This long @-@ run plan should increase spending on education , infrastructure , and research , while curbing future growth in health @-@ care spending through the cost @-@ containment mechanisms contained in Obama &apos;s health @-@ reform legislation .
Approving a long @-@ run deficit @-@ reduction plan now but deferring its starting date until the economy is near full employment would prevent premature fiscal contraction from tipping the economy back into recession .
Indeed , enactment of such a package could bolster output and employment growth by easing investor concerns about future deficits and strengthening consumer and business confidence .
Painful choices about how to close the long @-@ run fiscal gap should be decided now and implemented promptly once the economy has recovered .
But , for the next few years , the priorities of fiscal policy should be jobs , investment , and growth .
America &apos;s Ungovernable Budget
NEW YORK - The heart of any government is found in its budget .
Politicians can make endless promises , but if the budget doesn &apos;t add up , politics is little more than mere words .
The United States is now caught in such a bind .
In his recent State of the Union address , President Barack Obama painted a convincing picture of modern , twenty @-@ first @-@ century government .
His Republican Party opponents complained that Obama &apos;s proposals would bust the budget .
But the truth is that both parties are hiding from the reality : without more taxes , a modern , competitive US economy is not possible .
Obama rightly emphasized that competitiveness in the world today depends on an educated workforce and modern infrastructure .
That is true for any country , but it is especially relevant for rich countries . The US and Europe are in direct competition with Brazil , China , India , and other emerging economies , where wage levels are sometimes one @-@ quarter those in high @-@ income countries ( if not even lower ) .
America and Europe will keep their high living standards only by basing their competitiveness on advanced skills , cutting @-@ edge technologies , and modern infrastructure .
That is why Obama called for an increase in US public investment in three areas : education , science and technology , and infrastructure ( including broadband Internet , fast rail , and clean energy ) .
He spelled out a vision of future growth in which public and private investment would be complementary , mutually supportive pillars .
Obama emphasized these themes for good reason .
Unemployment in the US now stands at nearly 10 % of the labor force , in part because more new jobs are being created in the emerging economies , and many of the jobs now being created in the US pay less than in the past , owing to greater global competition .
Unless the US steps up its investment in education , science , technology , and infrastructure , these adverse trends will continue .
But Obama &apos;s message lost touch with reality when he turned his attention to the budget deficit .
Acknowledging that recent fiscal policies had put the US on an unsustainable trajectory of rising public debt , Obama said that moving towards budget balance was now essential for fiscal stability .
So he called for a five @-@ year freeze on what the US government calls &quot; discretionary &quot; civilian spending .
The problem is that more than half of such spending is on education , science and technology , and infrastructure - the areas that Obama had just argued should be strengthened .
After telling Americans how important government investment is for modern growth , he promised to freeze that spending for the next five years !
Politicians often change their message from one speech to the next , but rarely contradict it so glaringly in the same speech .
That contradiction highlights the sad and self @-@ defeating nature of US budget policies over the past 25 years , and most likely in the years to come .
On the one hand , the US government must invest more to promote economic competitiveness .
On the other hand , US taxes are chronically too low to support the level of government investment that is needed .
America &apos;s fiscal reality was made painfully clear two days after Obama &apos;s speech , in a new study from the Congressional Budget Office , which revealed that the budget deficit this year will reach nearly $ 1.5 trillion - a sum almost unimaginable even for an economy the size of the US .
At nearly 10 % of GDP , the deficit is resulting in a mountain of debt that threatens America &apos;s future .
The CBO study also made clear that December &apos;s tax @-@ cut agreement between Obama and the Republican opposition willfully and deliberately increased the budget deficit sharply .
Various tax cuts initiated by George W. Bush were set to expire at the end of 2010 .
Obama and the Republicans agreed to continue those tax cuts for at least two years ( they will now probably continue beyond that ) , thereby lowering tax revenue by $ 350 billion this year and again in 2012 .
Tax cuts for the richest Americans were part of the package .
The truth of US politics today is simple .
The key policy for the leaders of both political parties is tax cuts , especially for the rich .
Both political parties , and the White House , would rather cut taxes than spend more on education , science and technology , and infrastructure .
And the explanation is straightforward : the richest households fund political campaigns .
Both parties therefore cater to their wishes .
As a result , America &apos;s total tax revenues as a share of national income are among the lowest of all high @-@ income countries , roughly 30 % , compared to around 40 % in Europe . But 30 % of GDP is not enough to cover the needs of health , education , science and technology , social security , infrastructure , and other vital government responsibilities .
One budget area can and should be cut : military spending .
But even if America &apos;s wildly excessive military budget is cut sharply ( and politicians in both parties are resisting that ) , there will still be a need for new taxes .
The economic and social consequences of a generation of tax cutting are clear .
America is losing its international competitiveness , neglecting its poor - one in five American children is trapped in poverty - and leaving a mountain of debt to its young .
For all of the Obama administration &apos;s lofty rhetoric , his fiscal @-@ policy proposals make no serious attempt to address these problems .
To do so would require calling for higher taxes , and that - as George H. W. Bush learned in 1992 - is no way to get re @-@ elected .
America &apos;s Unhinged &quot; Pivot &quot;
NEW DELHI - President Barack Obama &apos;s first foreign trip since winning a second term highlights Asia &apos;s new centrality to America &apos;s economy and security .
But Obama &apos;s Asian tour also underscores the main question about American policy in the region : Will the United States &quot; &quot; pivot &quot; to Asia acquire concrete strategic content , or will it remain largely a rhetorical repackaging of old policies ?
The United States , quick to capitalize on regional concerns triggered by China &apos;s increasingly muscular self @-@ assertion , has strengthened its military ties with its existing Asian allies and forged security relationships with new friends .
But the heady glow of America &apos;s return to center stage in Asia has obscured key challenges in remaining the region &apos;s principal security anchor in the face of China &apos;s strategic ambitions .
One challenge is the need to arrest the erosion of America &apos;s relative power , which in turn requires comprehensive domestic renewal , including fiscal consolidation .
But the need for spending cuts also raises the prospect that the US might be unable to finance a military shift toward the Asia @-@ Pacific region - or , worse , that it will be forced to retrench there .
The US under Obama has increasingly ceded ground to China , a trend that admittedly began when the Bush administration became preoccupied with the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq .
This has spurred doubts about America &apos;s ability to provide strategic heft to its &quot; pivot &quot; by sustaining a higher level of commitment in the Asia @-@ Pacific region , where it already maintains 320,000 troops .
The proposed deployment of an additional 2,500 Marines in Australia is largely symbolic .
In fact , after raising Asians &quot; expectations of a more robust US response to China &apos;s growing assertiveness , the Obama administration has started to tamp down the military aspects of its &quot; pivot , &quot; emphasizing instead greater US economic engagement .
That change has come as a relief to those in the region who fear being forced to choose between the US and China .
But , for the countries bearing the brunt of China &apos;s recalcitrant approach to territorial and maritime disputes , this emphasis raises new doubts about America &apos;s commitment .
In fact , the economic reorientation of the US &quot; pivot &quot; corrects a policy that had overemphasized the military component and put the US on a path toward conflict with China .
It was Secretary of State Hillary Clinton who signaled a more hawkish US stance on China with her tough talk at the 2010 Association of Southeast Asian Nations ( ASEAN ) Regional Forum in Hanoi ; now she is moderating that position by promoting trade and investment during her visits to Asian countries .
Obama , too , is highlighting the economic aspects of the US &quot; pivot , &quot; portraying his Asia tour as an effort to generate more domestic manufacturing jobs through higher exports to &quot; the most rapidly growing and dynamic region in the world . &quot;
Even his historic visit to Myanmar - the first ever by a US president - is as much about trade as it is about weaning a strategically located , resource @-@ rich country from Chinese influence .
The refocus on trade and economic issues has also prompted Washington to promote the Trans @-@ Pacific Partnership , which aims to create a new Asia @-@ Pacific free @-@ trade group that excludes China .
Moreover , the US is emphasizing the importance of the East Asia Summit and ASEAN , whose summit overlaps with the EAS meeting in Phnom Penh that Obama will be attending .
The US course correction is being dictated by another consideration as well : America has nothing to gain from taking sides in China &apos;s disputes with its neighbors - unless , of course , US interests are directly at stake , as in the South China Sea , where Chinese maritime claims threaten freedom of navigation in some of the world &apos;s most heavily trafficked shipping lanes .
Concern for its own national interest explains why America has charted a course of tacit neutrality regarding the revival of Sino @-@ Indian territorial disputes , including China &apos;s sudden resurrection of a claim to the large Himalayan Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh .
Similarly , the US has urged both China and Japan to resolve peacefully their dispute over the Japanese @-@ controlled Senkaku Islands .
America &apos;s main goal is to prevent the standoff from escalating to the point that it would be forced - against its own interests - &amp; # 160 ; to take Japan &apos;s side .
When US Defense Secretary Leon Panetta met Chinese leader Xi Jinping in China in September , he got &quot; an earful &quot; that the US should stay out of the Sino @-@ Japanese dispute .
Indeed , amid the orchestrated anti @-@ Japanese protests in China in September , Panetta - instead of advising China to rein in the often @-@ violent demonstrations - &amp; # 160 ; publicly reiterated America &apos;s neutrality in the struggle over control of the islands .
The correction in US policy actually extends even to terminology .
American diplomats have now abandoned the term &quot; pivot &quot; altogether , owing to its military connotation , in favor of &quot; rebalancing . &quot;
Whatever one calls it , the new policy approach is all about China , with America bolstering alliances and friendships with countries around China &apos;s periphery , including India , Japan , the Philippines , Vietnam , Indonesia , and South Korea .
Yet the Obama administration continues to deny that China is at the center of its strategy .
In fact , it is reluctant to say or do anything publicly that might raise China &apos;s hackles .
The Asia @-@ Pacific region will loom larger in Obama &apos;s second @-@ term agenda , especially as the ongoing US troop withdrawal ends the Afghanistan war by 2014 .
But Obama will have to define a clearer US policy , addressing China &apos;s rapid rise under an authoritarian regime that aggressively pursues border claims and whips up nationalism at home .
The US and the rest of Asia must not merely adjust to China ; they must seek to shape a China that plays by the rules .
America &apos;s War @-@ Torn Economy
NEW YORK - Some say there are two issues in the coming American elections : the Iraq war and the economy .
On days when the war seems to be going better than expected , and the economy worse , the economy eclipses the war ; but neither is faring well .
In some sense , there is only one issue , and that is the war , which has exacerbated America &apos;s economic problems .
And when the world &apos;s largest economy is sick - and it is now very sick - the entire world suffers .
It used to be thought that wars were good for the economy .
After all , World War II is widely thought to have helped lift the global economy out of the Great Depression .
But , at least since Keynes , we know how to stimulate the economy more effectively , and in ways that increase long @-@ term productivity and enhance living standards .
This war , in particular , has not been good for the economy , for three reasons .
First , it has contributed to rising oil prices .
When the United States went to war , oil cost less than $ 25 a barrel , and futures markets expected it to remain there for a decade . Futures traders knew about the growth of China and other emerging markets ; but they expected supply - mainly from low @-@ cost Middle East providers - to increase in tandem with demand .
The war changed that equation .
Higher oil prices mean that Americans ( and Europeans and Japanese ) are paying hundreds of millions of dollars to Middle East oil dictators and oil exporters elsewhere in the world rather than spending it at home .
Moreover , money spent on the Iraq war does not stimulate the economy today as much as money spent at home on roads , hospitals , or schools , and it doesn &apos;t contribute as much to long @-@ term growth .
Economists talk about &quot; bang for the buck &quot; - how much economic stimulus is provided by each dollar of spending .
It &apos;s hard to imagine less bang than from bucks spent on a Nepalese contractor working in Iraq .
With so many dollars going abroad , the American economy should have been in a much weaker shape than it appeared .
But , much as the Bush administration tried to hide the true costs of the war by incomplete and misleading accounting , the economy &apos;s flaws were covered up by a flood of liquidity from the Federal Reserve and by lax financial regulation .
So much money was pumped into the economy and so lax were regulators that one leading American bank advertised its loans with the slogan &quot; qualified at birth &quot; - a clear indication that there were , in effect , no credit standards .
In a sense , the strategy worked : a housing bubble fed a consumption boom , as savings rates plummeted to zero . The economic weaknesses were simply being postponed to some future date ; the Bush administration hoped that the day of reckoning would come after November 2008 . Instead , things began to unravel in August 2007 .
Now it has responded , with a stimulus package that is too little , too late , and badly designed .
To see the inadequacy of that package , compare it with the more than $ 1.5 trillion that was borrowed in home equity loans in recent years , most of it spent on consumption .
That game - based on a belief in ever @-@ spiraling home prices - is over .
With home prices falling ( and set to continue to fall ) , and with banks uncertain of their financial position , lenders will not lend and households will not borrow .
So , while the additional liquidity injected into the financial system by the Fed may have prevented a meltdown , it won &apos;t stimulate much consumption or investment .
Instead , much of it will find its way abroad .
China , for example , is worried that the Fed &apos;s stimulus will increase its domestic inflation .
There is a third reason that this war is economically bad for America .
Not only has America already spent a great deal on this war - $ 12 billion a month , and counting - but much of the bill remains to be paid , such as compensation and health care for the 40 % of veterans who are returning with disabilities , many of which are very serious .
Moreover , this war has been funded differently from any other war in America &apos;s history -perhaps in any country &apos;s recent history .
Normally , countries ask for shared sacrifice , as they ask their young men and women to risk their lives .
Taxes are raised .
There is a discussion of how much of the burden to pass on to future generations . In this war , there was no such discussion .
When America went to war , there was a deficit .
Yet remarkably , Bush asked for , and got , a reckless tax cut for the rich .
That means that every dollar of war spending has in effect been borrowed .
For the first time since the Revolutionary War , two centuries ago , America has had to turn to foreigners for financing , because US households have been saving nothing .
The numbers are hard to believe .
The national debt has increased by 50 % in eight years , with almost $ 1 trillion of this increase due to the war - an amount likely to more than double within ten years .
Who would have believed that one administration could do so much damage so quickly ?
America , and the world , will be paying to repair it for decades to come .
Obama &apos;s Year of Iran
PRINCETON - As US President Barack Obama begins his second term , he will have to devote much of his attention to figuring out how to get America &apos;s domestic finances in order .
But foreign @-@ policy issues loom large as well , and , notwithstanding the ongoing conflict in Syria and the possible spread of war across Africa &apos;s Sahel region , the consensus in Washington is that 2013 will be the &quot; year of decision &quot; on Iran .
Obama began his first administration with an offer to engage with the Islamic Republic ; as he memorably put it in his first inaugural address in 2009 , &quot; We will extend a hand if you are willing to unclench your fist . &quot;
He repeated that commitment , although much more obliquely , in his second inaugural address : &quot; We will show the courage to try and resolve our differences with other nations peacefully - not because we are naive about the dangers we face , but because engagement can more durably lift suspicion and fear . &quot;
As the American scholar and activist Hussein Ibish recently argued , Obama has appointed a cabinet designed to give him maximum room to negotiate a deal with Iran .
In particular , naming military veterans as Secretary of State and Secretary of Defense will provide him with valuable domestic political cover for an agreement that would inevitably require lifting sanctions on Iran and almost certainly recognizing its right to enrich uranium at a low level of concentration .
That should signal to Iran &apos;s rulers not only that the US is serious about a deal , but also that whatever the US offers is likely to be the best deal that they can get .
The Obama administration has assembled an extraordinary coalition of countries to impose economic sanctions that are having a demonstrable effect on the price and availability of goods in Iran and on the ability of even powerful institutions , such as the Revolutionary Guard , to do business .
But coalitions do not hold together forever , and the pain of sanctions often cuts both ways , affecting buyers as well as sellers .
Countries like South Korea and Japan , for example , have curtailed their imports of Iranian oil only reluctantly ; countries like China and Russia rarely play straight on sanctions in the first place .
Moreover , Obama can threaten that &quot; all options are on the table &quot; only so many times without losing credibility with the Iranians and other countries in the Middle East .
As Brookings Institution foreign @-@ policy expert Suzanne Maloney points out , countries in the region and beyond are already dismayed at the lack of US leadership concerning Syria .
If the US gives negotiations one more serious try ( a credible offer and a genuine willingness to engage ) , gets rebuffed , and then does nothing , it will effectively declare itself a paper tiger .
At that point , the sanctions coalition will most likely disintegrate amid a much broader loss of confidence in US leadership .
The US has thus painted itself into a corner .
Former US National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski recently argued strongly against military action , proposing , instead , a strategy that would continue sanctions and extend deterrence .
Like US policy toward the Soviet bloc during the Cold War , &quot; An Iranian military threat aimed at Israel or any other US friend in the Middle East would be treated as if directed at the United States itself and would precipitate a commensurate US response . &quot;
I can certainly see the wisdom in Brzezinski &apos;s approach .
But Obama has marched the US and its allies too far down the current path .
Moreover , and crucially , Brzezinski forgets that Obama &apos;s determination to stop Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon does not stem only from his concern for Israel &apos;s security or the stability of the wider Middle East .
Obama has repeatedly committed himself to the goal of turning the world in the direction of &quot; global zero &quot; - a world without nuclear weapons .
He believes ( as do former Secretaries of State Henry Kissinger and George Shultz , former Secretary of Defense William Perry , and former Senator Sam Nunn ) that unless the world finds a way to live without nuclear weapons , we will find ourselves in an international system in which 30 @-@ 50 states possess them , raising the danger of accidental or deliberate launch to an unacceptably high level .
Convincing great powers to eliminate their nuclear arsenals might seem as politically fanciful as pushing gun @-@ control legislation through the US Congress , but on that issue , too , Obama has made clear that he is willing to try .
However logical or attractive a containment policy might be , and however disastrous the consequences of bombing are likely to be , Obama &apos;s commitment to realizing global denuclearization as part of his legacy implies that he will not allow another country to acquire a nuclear weapon on his watch , as his predecessors allowed India , Israel , North Korea , and Pakistan to do .
Thus , the stakes for both the US and Iran are very high .
Other countries would do well not to underestimate Obama &apos;s resolve ; governments that have relations with Iran should emphasize that the time to make a deal is now .
And countries like Turkey and Brazil ( and perhaps India and Egypt ) could play a useful role by devising face @-@ saving ways for the Iranians to meet the international community &apos;s demands , together with longer @-@ term alternatives for fuel enrichment that would be consistent with reducing the global nuclear threat .
America &apos;s allies , in turn , must be prepared to close ranks with it on both the outlines of a deal and the willingness to strike militarily .
The art of statecraft is not to choose between war and diplomacy as if they were mutually exclusive alternatives , but to understand how they fit together .
In the case of Syria , the West has repeatedly called for diplomacy while ruling out any military action , with predictably bad results .
The US will not make that mistake with Iran .
America Shoots Itself
One of the casualties of the war against terrorism--or , rather , of the way the United States is conducting the war--is the US influence in promoting human rights worldwide .
For the international human rights movement , this is a severe setback .
For more than a quarter of a century , ever since advancing human rights internationally became an explicit and avowed goal of US foreign policy under President Jimmy Carter , American influence played a leading role in mitigating abuses .
The consequences were most profound in what were the countries of the Soviet empire , but they extended to other regions as well .
Even where the US supported regimes that committed grave violations of rights--or served as an apologist for them because other national interests took precedence--it was often possible for the human rights movement to embarrass Washington by making it the surrogate villain for its clients &apos; abuses .
In the 1980 &apos;s , this approach focused attention on abuses in conflict @-@ ridden Central America and in Saddam Hussein &apos;s Iraq , which the Reagan Administration favored in its struggle with America &apos;s enemy , Ayatollah Khomeini &apos;s Iran .
It thus sometimes achieved indirectly what could not be done directly : the leveraging of American influence to promote human rights .
But America &apos;s capacity to promote human rights in other countries has never been weaker than now .
One reason is the tremendous increase in anti @-@ Americanism since the terrorist attacks of September 11 , 2001 .
This is largely due to a widespread perception of American arrogance .
Despite ( or because of ) its insistence that all who are not with America are against it , the Bush administration alienated many who previously counted themselves either as friends of the US or did not take sides .
At the same time , rising anti @-@ Americanism preceded the US response to the terrorist attacks .
The Bush team was outspoken in its hostility to a range of international agreements , from the Kyoto Treaty to reduce global warming to the establishment of the International Criminal Court .
Whatever goodwill towards the US prevailed after September 11 was quickly squandered .
The Bush administration proclaimed a national security policy that insists that America provides the only sustainable model for national success , and asserted its right to engage in unilateral , preemptive military strikes .
It treated the UN Security Council with disdain in its rush to war in Iraq , invoking justifications that have not stood up to scrutiny .
Since then , it has continued to insist that its arguments for invading Iraq are beyond criticism , while making a mess of the postwar administration by refusing to share authority .
The other major reason that America is losing its effectiveness as a promoter of human rights is a widespread perception of hypocrisy .
Even before the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington , America &apos;s image as a rights proponent had been tarnished , particularly in Europe , by its continued practice of capital punishment and , to a lesser degree , by its high incarceration rate--approximately seven times the average in the European Union &apos;s fifteen member countries .
Since September 2001 , the cause for concern has grown dramatically .
Much international attention has focused on the USA Patriot Act &apos;s sanctioning of grave violations of civil liberties , and on the subsequent treatment of thousands of immigrants--particularly south Asian Muslims--who have faced secret detention and deportation .
Above all , the rest of the world has looked on with alarm as the US holds more than 600 men at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba without access to family or counsel , and without prospect of an impartial hearing or trial .
In some instances , reports of rights violations in the US are exaggerated .
But this is an inevitable consequence of the Bush administration &apos;s own haughty manner , with leading spokespersons , such as Attorney General John Ashcroft , proclaiming their own righteousness in leading the effort to abrogate rights .
Ashcroft is much less known internationally than Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld , but he is an even match in arousing dislike for the US among those who do know him .
Unfortunately , there is no ready substitute for the US as a force for advancing human rights internationally .
The UN has been useful as a forum for adopting standards , but its machinery for seeking compliance with those standards is weak and has been badly compromised over the years by its failure to address grotesque abuses .
The choice of Libya to chair the UN Human Rights Commission adds insult to injury .
Some European governments have evolved strong human rights polices but , for a variety of reasons , they have been unable , individually or collectively , to exert the influence of the US .
Fortunately , while this is likely to remain true for the foreseeable future , the international human rights movement is not completely without resources .
Its own prestige is high : groups such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch are respected voices , to whom many governments feel obliged to pay attention .
There is also the promise of new institutions .
In cases of extreme rights abuses , the chance that an international criminal tribunal will ultimately sit in judgment of those principally responsible is growing , thereby becoming a deterrent to would @-@ be tyrants elsewhere .
America should take note .
America Should Not Lower the Nuclear Threshold
President Bush has pushed stopping the spread of nuclear weapons to the top of the international agenda .
Ironic , then , that America &apos;s nuclear weapons development program may promote the very proliferation it seeks to prevent , as US Senator Dianne Feinstein explains .
With the world &apos;s focus on the debate over Iraq , the war on terror , and the Bush administration &apos;s doctrine of unilateral preemption , the American government &apos;s new emphasis on the utility of nuclear weapons has not received the attention it deserves .
This is unfortunate , as this exploration of new uses for nuclear weapons represents a revolutionary shift in US national security policy .
Today , the world faces unprecedented challenges at the nexus of terror and weapons of mass destruction .
With both North Korea and Iran openly pursuing nuclear ambitions and a potential nuclear arms race in South Asia , it is critical that America provide leadership , in both word and in deed , to reduce the risks and the role of nuclear weapons throughout the world .
Instead , the Bush administration seems intent on doing just the opposite .
Many of the actions of the American administration , and much of the US government &apos;s rhetoric , may actually be increasing the threat from nuclear weapons rather than making the world safer .
The Bush administration &apos;s January 2002 Nuclear Posture Review signaled a major change in US nuclear policy by advancing a new triad that integrates nuclear weapons with conventional strike options and blurring the line between the use of conventional and nuclear weapons .
It also specified scenarios in which the US might use nuclear weapons first , even against non @-@ nuclear states , and called for a new generation of US nuclear warheads , including low yield or so @-@ called &quot; mini @-@ nukes . &quot;
The US has never had a no @-@ first @-@ strike policy , but it has likewise never had a policy such as that embodied in the Nuclear Policy Review .
Today , under the terms of the ideas set out in that review , the US contemplates the first use of nuclear weapons , and seeks to integrate tactical battlefield nuclear weapons alongside conventional munitions .
Despite efforts to downplay the significance of the Nuclear Posture Review since its publication , it remains , in my view , extremely provocative and dangerous .
Earlier this year , at a hearing of the US Senate &apos;s Committee on Energy and Natural Resources , I asked Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham , whose Department oversees America &apos;s research and development of nuclear weapons , whether the Bush administration wanted to develop new low @-@ yield nuclear weapons .
Secretary Abraham said it did not ; that his department was only studying adaptations of existing weapons .
Yet , there should be no doubt that the Bush administration is beginning the research and development of new nuclear weapons .
Just this year , a 10 @-@ year @-@ old ban on the research and development of nuclear weapons below five kilotons--the bomb at Hiroshima was 15 kilotons--was eliminated .
Pushed by the Bush administration , Congress authorized $ 21 million for the study and development of new nuclear weapons , including a 100 @-@ kiloton bunker buster , as well as tactical battlefield nuclear weapons .
Moreover , the time to test readiness of the Nevada test site has been moved up from three years to two years , and funding has been provided to produce additional fissile material for new nuclear weapons .
I argued and voted against these new nuclear initiatives in the US Senate earlier this year .
Clearly , the nuclear door is being reopened .
For , by taking the steps called for in the Nuclear Posture Review--specifically , developing &quot; new capabilities ... to defeat emerging threats , &quot; including &quot; extensive research and timely fielding of
This approach is not in America &apos;s national interest , nor is it consistent with American traditions and values .
A first @-@ use of nuclear weapons by the US should be unthinkable , and responding to a non @-@ nuclear attack with nuclear weapons violates a central tenet of just war and US military tradition .
Indeed , nuclear options should not be considered as an extension of conventional options .
Why ?
Because this inevitably lowers the threshold for use .
So , if the US develops nuclear weapons that blur the distinction between conventional and nuclear forces , the message this sends to the rest of the world must be considered .
I believe it is critical that the US set a very high international standard for nuclear restraint .
If America does not , it may very likely encourage others to develop their own standards and their own nuclear arsenals .
That seems to be happening .
Both India and Pakistan are nuclear powers , and the history of bloody warfare between them presents a major and ongoing security threat to South Asia .
If either country adhered to the thinking embodied in the Bush administration &apos;s new nuclear policy , there would be little reason for each not to seek to integrate nuclear weapons even more deeply into their own contingency plans--and possibly use them .
At a time when the US brands as &quot; evil &quot; certain countries based , in part , on their pursuit of nuclear arms and weapons of mass destruction , it must be especially careful in how it considers its own options and contingencies regarding nuclear weapons .
If the US is not careful , our own new nuclear posture could provoke the very nuclear @-@ proliferation activities we are seeking to prevent .
America the Hypocritical
In commemorating the 230th anniversary of America &apos;s independence last July , President George W. Bush noted that the patriots of the Revolutionary War believed that all men are created equal , and with inalienable rights .
Because of these ideals , he proclaimed , the United States &quot; remains a beacon of hope for all who dream of liberty and a shining example to the world of what a free people can achieve . &quot;
But , at the same time , his administration was holding approximately 400 prisoners at the US Naval Base at Guantánamo Bay in Cuba .
Some of them have now been there for more than five years .
None of them has ever been put on trial .
Last month , a highly reputable source confirmed that the Guantánamo prisoners are suffering from more than indefinite detention .
The US Federal Bureau of Investigation released documents showing that an FBI agent witnessed &quot; on several occasions &quot; detainees who were &quot; chained hand and foot in &#91; a &#93; fetal position to &#91; the &#93; floor , &quot; without a chair , or food or water .
In these conditions , &quot; most urinated or defecated on &#91; them &#93; selves . &quot;
They were left there for 18 or 24 hours , or more .
On one of these occasions , the agent reported , &quot; the air conditioning was turned up so low that the barefooted detainee was shaking with cold . &quot;
On another occasion the room was unventilated , the temperature over 100 degrees Fahrenheit , and the detainee was almost unconscious on the floor with a pile of hair next to him - &quot; he had apparently been pulling it out throughout the night . &quot;
Another FBI agent was laughingly told by a civilian contractor , &quot; &#91; Y &#93; ou have to see this . &quot;
He was then taken to an interrogation room where he saw a longhaired man with a full beard who was gagged with duct tape that &quot; covered much of his head . &quot;
When the agent asked how the tape would be removed , he was not given any answer .
Other FBI agents reported seeing prisoners left in shackles for 12 hours or more , again in cold conditions , being subjected to strobe lights and loud rap music for many hours , or being forced to wrap themselves in an Israeli flag .
The FBI report noted these incidents with the comment : &quot; doesn &apos;t seem excessive given Department of Defense policy . &quot;
Several of the detainees told the FBI agents that they had no connection with terrorism and had no idea why they had been abducted and taken to Guantánamo .
Many prisoners were not captured fighting in Afghanistan .
Some were picked up in Bosnia , Indonesia , Thailand , Mauritania , and Pakistan .
The Bush administration says that the detainees are &quot; enemy combatants &quot; in the global war against terror - a war that is being waged around the world , and that could last for decades .
The commander of the Guantánamo task force , Rear Admiral Harry B. Harris , Jr . , recently defended harsh treatment of his prisoners , claiming , &quot; They &apos;re all terrorists ; they &apos;re all enemy combatants . &quot;
But the CIA has made mistakes before .
For example , Murat Kurnaz , a German @-@ born Turkish man , was held in Guantánamo for four years before being released last August .
The case of Khaled el @-@ Masri , a German citizen of Lebanese descent , appears to be another of these errors .
Seized by the CIA in Macedonia , he was taken to Afghanistan and interrogated for five months before being released without charge .
A German court has now issued arrest warrants for those involved in his abduction .
If there are any human rights at all , the right not to be locked up indefinitely without trial is surely one of them .
The US Constitution &apos;s Bill of Rights puts considerable emphasis on that right , specifying in the Sixth Amendment that in all criminal prosecutions , &quot; the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial , by an impartial jury &quot; and &quot; to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation ; to be confronted with the witnesses against him . &quot;
None of the Guantánamo inmates has been granted these rights .
So it has never been proved , by the standards laid down in the US Constitution that any of them really are terrorists .
But the Sixth Amendment does not apply to the Guantánamo prisoners , because they are not US citizens and are in a facility that , technically , is not part of US territory , although it is under the full control of the US government .
Whatever US courts say about it , abducting people all over the world , locking them up for years without establishing that they are guilty of anything , and subjecting them to harsh and abusive treatment is a flagrant violation of international law .
By any standard of justice , it is also just plain wrong .
Tom Paine , the great American revolutionary and author of
America the Pariah
America Wakes Up to Climate Change
After years of debate in the United States , and opposition to action by the Bush administration , America is finally waking up to the reality of global climate change .
Leadership is still not coming from the president , but the private sector has begun to act .
Leaders of major US companies have decided that global man @-@ made climate change is real , must be controlled , and that business must play a constructive part in the process .
Thus , even as the Bush administration and some scientific contrarians pretend that there is no problem , US corporate leaders are seeking practical solutions .
The basic situation has been clear for years .
Global use of fossil fuels is contributing to a sharp rise in atmospheric carbon dioxide , which is causing the Earth to warm .
Rainfall patterns are changing .
Deserts and dry regions are becoming drier .
Extreme weather events such as hurricanes and typhoons are likely to increase .
Flooding in Europe is likely to intensify , a process that may already have begun .
Sea levels are rising , and could climb sharply if global warming leads to a destabilization of the Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets .
In short , the scientific evidence is strong and growing that the planet is at grave risk , with many ill effects already being felt and more to come .
The proper responses are also increasingly understood .
We must move to a sustainable energy system , one that does not mean a huge increase of carbon in the atmosphere .
This will require a shift to renewable energy sources such as solar power , and perhaps nuclear power , as well as new technologies to capture carbon dioxide at power plants and then to dispose of the carbon dioxide in safe underground deposits .
Society will have to pay a price for these investments in new energy technologies , but the benefits will be vastly greater than the price .
The US is the world &apos;s major emitter of carbon dioxide from energy use , but it has done the least among all major economies to confront the global challenge .
The Bush administration claims that more research is needed before any action is taken .
Yet real action in the US is starting , thanks to leadership in other parts of the world , and thanks to the enlightened understanding of some major American businesses .
First , the rest of the world ratified the Kyoto Protocol to control emissions of carbon dioxide .
At the beginning of this year , Europe introduced a new Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trading Scheme that uses market @-@ based incentives to control carbon emissions .
American companies operating in Europe are part of that system for their European @-@ based emissions , so that US companies are being pulled into climate control even if their own government avoids the issue .
Second , major US investors , such as pension fund managers , are realizing that US companies that fail to control their emissions may be vulnerable to financial losses in the future .
They know that , sooner or later , the US will have to join the rest of the world in controlling climate change .
At that point , power companies that use antiquated technologies that emit massive amounts of greenhouse gases may face serious financial losses .
So investors are telling companies to report their carbon emissions today in order to assess future liabilities .
Similarly , many company bosses know that pretending that climate problems do not exist is bad for shareholders , because reality will one day strike .
They know that investing today in clean technologies can give them a long @-@ term competitive advantage .
As a result , many companies are taking steps now to limit their emissions to avoid future financial liabilities and a lack of investor confidence .
The most dramatic breakthrough of this kind occurred when General Electric , one of the world &apos;s most important , innovative , and respected companies , announced that it was going &quot; green &quot; with a major new corporate focus on environmentally sound technologies and a commitment to limit its own greenhouse gas emissions .
With GE &apos;s leadership , which it termed &quot; ecomagination &quot; ( combining ecology with imagination ) , many US businesses are sure to follow .
It is too early to count on success in engaging the US on climate change .
The Bush administration continues to delay and to avoid sound science .
Yet it is reasonably clear that a tipping point has been reached .
Reality is catching up with the US , as it already has elsewhere in the world .
As US citizens and businesses continue to suffer the results of climate change - heat waves , droughts , hurricanes , and floods - more and more Americans , including an increasing number of business leaders , will press America &apos;s political leaders for real action .
The solutions will not be easy , and the effort must last over many decades in all parts of the world .
But the effort needs to start now .
As with Europe &apos;s new carbon trading , all producers and consumers around the globe will need to face market incentives to adopt technologies and consumption patterns that slow ( and eventually stop ) the increase of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere .
We will all need to pay a &quot; market price &quot; when we contribute to global climate change , so that we give true economic incentives to sustainable energy systems and new public investments - for example , mass transit - that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and thereby head off future climatic disasters .
Alliances for Peace
WASHINGTON , DC - I grew up in the shadow of World War II , and at the dawn of the Cold War .
My father &apos;s work as a Foreign Service officer gave me an opportunity to see history up close in a searing way : I will never forget walking the beaches of Normandy with him and seeing the burned hulks of Higgins &quot; boats still on those shores , just a few years after so many young men went to their graves so the world could be free .
Likewise , I will never forget the eerie feeling of riding my bike through the Brandenburg Gate from West Berlin into the East , and seeing the contrast between people who were free and those who were trapped behind the Iron Curtain .
What strikes me now , all these years later , is that a generation of leaders won not only a war , but also the peace .
They did it together .
The United States and our partners worked to create alliances that brought prosperity and stability to Western Europe , Japan , and South Korea .
Old enemies became new allies , and together pioneered a new global economic system that made the world more prosperous .
And even as the Cold War raged , leaders found ways to cooperate on arms control and prevent a nuclear Armageddon .
In short , by building effective and indispensable international institutions and strategic partnerships , we did not just avoid another catastrophic world war ; we ultimately ended the Cold War and lifted global living standards for hundreds of millions of people .
That is the remarkable story of the twentieth century .
The question now is what story will emerge from the twenty @-@ first century .
Today , the world order faces new challenges .
Russian aggression is rattling allies .
Extremists who hijack religion threaten governments and people everywhere .
Technology is accelerating a shift in the balance of power between governments and governed that offers both opportunities for democratic accountability and obstacles to inclusive politics .
We have gone from a world where power resided in hierarchies to one where it inhabits networks .
Statecraft has yet to adapt .
The international institutions and partnerships that emerged in the postwar years demand both maintenance and modernization .
In the face of all of this turbulence , some suggest that America should turn inward .
That is nothing new .
Some argued the same after WWII .
They argued it again 25 years ago , after the fall of the Berlin Wall .
They were wrong then - and they are wrong now .
The need for leadership has never been greater , and the US has never been more engaged with the world .
Our role in Afghanistan &apos;s first @-@ ever peaceful , democratic transition reminds us all that , having invested so much blood and treasure in helping to give Afghans a chance to succeed in battle , the world has just as much responsibility to help its leaders succeed in governance .
We know that the destruction of 100 % of Syria &apos;s declared chemical weapons would not have happened without direct , hands @-@ on diplomacy and perseverance , just as Syria &apos;s immoral and horrifying civil war will not end without an equal commitment .
So , too , in Asia , where President Barack Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping just announced ambitious commitments to tackle climate change , we are reminded of what countries can accomplish together with real leadership - and of how much additional leadership is required to conclude a successful climate agreement in Paris next year .
The world has changed , and we are changing with it .
Lines on the map no longer contain the gravest threats , and the players are no longer divided neatly into two camps .
In the twenty @-@ first century , next door is everywhere .
That is why the world needs coalition diplomacy .
No country can defeat terrorism on its own .
No country can solve the existential threat of climate change alone .
No country can eradicate extreme poverty , combat potential pandemics , or improve nuclear security by itself .
None of us can live safer , richer lives by turning our back to the world .
We must build on our history of working with allies by forming new coalitions - with governments , with civil society , and , yes , with everyday people .
A good example is the international effort to confront the Islamic State &apos;s malign brutality in Iraq and Syria .
Political , humanitarian , and intelligence tools from more than 60 countries are being used to support unified military action .
Success depends not on what one or even a handful of countries can do alone , but on what all of us are able to achieve by moving forward together against this common threat .
On an equally important front , the US is working with the United Nations to galvanize a global response to the danger posed by the Ebola virus .
I have personally talked with more than 50 foreign leaders , and we all agree that only by coordinating our actions can we stop the devastation in West Africa and halt Ebola &apos;s spread .
We are making progress on both issues , but much work remains .
Bringing together countries with competing interests and varying resources is hard work .
It demands intense diplomatic engagement and calls upon relationships that have been built and maintained over decades , as well as alliances with new partners .
But by overcoming differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the Islamic State and conquer Ebola , we are reinforcing support for a world order grounded in collective solutions to common problems .
Cooperation is equally vital in reinforcing the bedrock economic principles on which America and other countries built their postwar prosperity .
Frustration cannot grow faster than opportunity in any country .
For example , the negotiations on the Trans @-@ Pacific Partnership ( TPP ) reflect President Obama &apos;s determination to strike an accord with countries that represent one @-@ third of global trade and 40 % of global GDP .
The benefits - for both the US and our partners - are enormous .
Estimates are that the TPP could provide $ 77 billion a year in real income and support 650,000 new jobs in the US alone . The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership being negotiated with the European Union offers another major step toward increasing trade .
Whether for mutual security or shared prosperity , genuine partnerships are not built overnight .
Patient diplomacy and a collective will are needed to advance common goals .
America &apos;s objectives remain the same as they have been for decades - peace , prosperity , and stability for the US and for our partners around the world .
Inequality and the American Child
NEW YORK - Children , it has long been recognized , are a special group .
They do not choose their parents , let alone the broader conditions into which they are born .
They do not have the same abilities as adults to protect or care for themselves .
That is why the League of Nations approved the Geneva Declaration on the Rights of the Child in 1924 , and why the international community adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1989 .
Sadly , the United States is not living up to its obligations .
In fact , it has not even ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child .
The US , with its cherished image as a land of opportunity , should be an inspiring example of just and enlightened treatment of children .
Instead , it is a beacon of failure - one that contributes to global sluggishness on children &apos;s rights in the international arena .
Though an average American childhood may not be the worst in the world , the disparity between the country &apos;s wealth and the condition of its children is unparalleled .
About 14.5 % of the American population as a whole is poor , but 19.9 % of children - some 15 million individuals - live in poverty .
Among developed countries , only Romania has a higher rate of child poverty .
The US rate is two @-@ thirds higher than that in the United Kingdom , and up to four times the rate in the Nordic countries .
For some groups , the situation is much worse : more than 38 % of black children , and 30 % of Hispanic children , are poor .
None of this is because Americans do not care about their children .
It is because America has embraced a policy agenda in recent decades that has caused its economy to become wildly unequal , leaving the most vulnerable segments of society further and further behind .
The growing concentration of wealth - and a significant reduction in taxes on it - has meant less money to spend on investments for the public good , like education and the protection of children .
As a result , America &apos;s children have become worse off .
Their fate is a painful example of how inequality not only undermines economic growth and stability - as economists and organizations like the International Monetary Fund are finally acknowledging - but also violates our most cherished notions of what a fair society should look like .
Income inequality is correlated with inequalities in health , access to education , and exposure to environmental hazards , all of which burden children more than other segments of the population .
Indeed , nearly one in five poor American children are diagnosed with asthma , a rate 60 % higher than non @-@ poor children .
Learning disabilities occur almost twice as frequently among children in households earning less than $ 35,000 a year than they do in households earning more than $ 100,000 .
And some in the US Congress want to cut food stamps - on which some 23 million American households depend , threatening the poorest children with hunger .
These inequalities in outcomes are closely tied to inequalities in opportunities .
Inevitably , in countries where children have inadequate nutrition , insufficient access to health care and education , and higher exposure to environmental hazards , the children of the poor will have far different life prospects from those of the rich .
And , partly because an American child &apos;s lifetime prospects are more dependent on his or her parents &quot; income and education than in other advanced countries , the US now has the least equality of opportunity of any advanced country .
At America &apos;s most elite universities , for example , only around 9 % of students come from the bottom half of the population , while 74 % come from the top quarter .
Most societies recognize a moral obligation to help ensure that young people can live up to their potential .
Some countries even impose a constitutional mandate for equality of educational opportunities .
But in America , more is spent on the education of rich students than on the education of the poor .
As a result , the US is wasting some of its most valuable assets , with some young people - bereft of skills - turning to dysfunctional activities .
American states like California spend about as much on prisons as on higher education - and sometimes more .
Without compensatory measures - including pre @-@ school education , ideally beginning at a very young age - unequal opportunities translate into unequal lifelong outcomes by the time children reach the age of five .
That should be a spur to policy action .
Indeed , while inequality &apos;s harmful effects are wide @-@ reaching , and impose huge costs on our economies and societies , they are largely avoidable .
The extremes of inequality observed in some countries are not the inexorable result of economic forces and laws .
The right policies - stronger social safety nets , progressive taxation , and better regulation ( especially of the financial sector ) , to name a few - can reverse these devastating trends .
To generate the political will that such reforms require , we must confront policymakers &quot; inertia and inaction with the grim facts of inequality and its devastating effects on our children .
We can reduce childhood deprivation and increase equality of opportunity , thereby laying the groundwork for a more just and prosperous future - one that reflects our own avowed values .
So why don &apos;t we ?
Of the harm that inequality inflicts on our economies , politics , and societies , the damage done to children demands special concern .
Whatever responsibility poor adults may bear for their lot in life - they may not have worked hard enough , saved enough , or made good decisions - children &apos;s circumstances are thrust upon them without any sort of choice .
Children , perhaps more than anyone , need the protection that rights afford - and the US should be providing the world with a shining example of what that means .
American Conservatism &apos;s Crisis of Ideas
BERKELEY - On the back left corner of my desk right now are three recent books : Arthur Brooks &quot; The Battle , Charles Murray &apos;s Coming Apart , and Nicholas Eberstadt &apos;s A Nation of Takers .
Together , they constitute an important intellectual movement , which also happens to be a large part of the reason that American conservatism today has little that is constructive to say about managing the economy - and little purchase on the center of the American electorate .
But let &apos;s back up historically , to the founding of what we might call modern conservatism in early nineteenth @-@ century Britain and France .
There were some - Frédéric Bastiat and Jean @-@ Baptiste Say come to mind - who believed that government should put the unemployed to work building infrastructure when markets or production were temporarily disrupted .
But they were balanced by those like Nassau Senior , who spoke out against even famine relief : Although a million people would die in the Irish Potato Famine , &quot; that would scarcely be enough . &quot;
The main thrust of early conservatism was root @-@ and @-@ branch opposition to every form of social insurance : make the poor richer , and they would become more fertile .
As a result , farm sizes would drop ( as land was divided among ever more children ) , labor productivity would fall , and the poor would become even poorer .
Social insurance was not just pointless ; it was counterproductive .
The proper economic policy was to teach people to venerate the throne ( so that they would respect property ) , the paternal hearth ( so that they would not marry imprudently young ) , and the religious altar ( so that they would fear pre @-@ marital sex ) .
Then , perhaps , with women chaste for half or more of their childbearing years , the surplus population would diminish and conditions for the poor would be as good as they could be .
Fast @-@ forward 150 years to post @-@ World War II America , and to the original Chicago School critique of the New Deal version of social insurance - that it created &quot; notches &quot; that perverted economic incentives .
The government , Milton Friedman and others argued , told the poor : make more money and we will take away your free housing , food stamps , and income support .
People are rational , Friedman said , so they will not work for long if they get nothing or next to nothing for it .
The big difference between the Malthusian conservative critics of social insurance in the early nineteenth century and the Chicago critics of the 1970 &quot; s is that the Chicago critics had a point : Providing public support to the &quot; worthy &quot; poor , and then removing it when they began to stand on their own feet , poisoned incentives and was unlikely to lead to good outcomes .
And so , from 1970 to 2000 , a broad coalition of conservatives ( who wanted to see the government stop encouraging immorality ) , centrists ( who wanted government money spent effectively ) , and leftists ( who wanted poverty alleviated ) removed the &quot; notches &quot; from the social @-@ insurance system .
Presidents Jimmy Carter , Ronald Reagan , George H. W. Bush , Bill Clinton , and even George W. Bush and their supporters created the current system , in which tax rates and eligibility thresholds are not punitive disincentives to enterprise .
So what is the problem that America &apos;s new generation of conservative critics of social insurance sees ?
It is not that raising poor people &apos;s standard of living above bare subsistence produces Malthusian catastrophe , or that taxes and withdrawal of welfare benefits make people work , at the margin , for nothing .
For Eberstadt , the problem is that dependence on government is emasculating , and that too many people are dependent on government .
For Brooks , it is that knowing that public programs make one &apos;s life easier causes one to vote for non @-@ Republican candidates .
For Murray , it is that social insurance means that behaving badly does not lead to catastrophe - and we need bad behavior to lead to catastrophe in order to keep people from behaving badly .
The crucial point is that America &apos;s conservative elites believe Brooks , Eberstadt , and Murray .
To this day , Mitt Romney is convinced that he lost the presidency in 2012 because Barack Obama unfairly gave Latino @-@ Americans subsidized health insurance ; gave women free reproductive health coverage ( excluding abortion ) ; and gave other groups similar &quot; gifts . &quot;
He could &quot; never convince them that they should take personal responsibility and care for their lives . &quot;
In fact , it would be a tough sell for any candidate to convince Americans who receive government benefits that they are dependent rather than empowered ; that it is bad for people to vote for politicians who make their lives better ; and that good public policy seeks to create human catastrophe rather than to avert it .
The problem for American conservatives is not their choice of candidates or the tone of their rhetoric .
It is that their ideas are not politically sustainable .
American Crony Capitalists Go to War
When financial crisis hit Asia in 1997 , America &apos;s leaders charged Asian governments with practicing crony capitalism .
In retrospect , the charge seems like rank hypocrisy .
America has shown itself to be second to none in practicing cronyism , first with its rotten corporate scandals of recent years , and now in Iraq .
Asian capitalists may have stolen some borrowed loot , but at least they didn &apos;t mix finance with war .
Whatever other goals lay behind the Iraq war , the Bush Administration seems keen to line the pockets of its cronies and to capture increased control over Middle East oil and pipeline routes .
Only a few pesky obstacles--the UN , and the Iraqi people--stand in their way .
The Iraq war was ostensibly launched because of Saddam &apos;s weapons of mass destruction , yet each passing day suggests that the threat was exaggerated .
Another goal also loomed large : control over 11 % ( or more ) of the world &apos;s oil reserves and , in the longer term , control over pipeline routes between the Mediterranean , the Caspian Sea , and the Indian Ocean .
The failure to locate Saddam &apos;s WMD &apos;s is putting America &apos;s grab for Iraqi oil into sharp focus .
The Cheney @-@ Rumsfeld team is so arrogant that it acts as if it can flaunt the takeover of Middle East oil while brushing aside questions .
In Afghanistan last year , the US installed Hamid Karzai , a former consultant for oil giant Unocal , as interim leader .
It also appointed Kalmay Khalilzad , another former Unocal consultant --indeed , Karzai &apos;s boss--as special US envoy .
Khalilzad and Karzai spent considerable efforts in the late 1990s to get an American @-@ built pipeline to carry gas from Turkeminstan through Afghanistan to Pakistan and the Indian Ocean .
Even before the bombs stopped falling on Baghdad , Khalilzad &apos;s writ as Special Envoy was extended to Iraq .
Among his likely jobs in Iraq will be to secure a pipeline carrying Iraqi oil from Mosul , Iraq to Haifa , Israel via Syria .
To stop Syria from objecting , the US is now threatening it as well .
Khalilzad will have plenty of support in the Bush Administration , which is heavily loaded with oil industry executives .
National Security Advisor Condeleeza Rice was a Director of Chevron @-@ Texaco before coming to the National Security Council .
She even had an oil tanker named after her .
Commerce Secretary Don Evans is also an oil @-@ company CEO .
Vice President Richard Cheney was in effect lead conductor of the group when he served as Chairman of Halliburton , the world &apos;s largest oil services company .
Halliburton is now at the front of the line for Iraqi reconstruction projects , for which contracts are being handed out without any transparent and competitive process whatsoever .
But what is happening here is more than &quot; guilt by association &quot; with the oil industry .
The Bush Administration is flouting every rule to give its cronies the inside track .
Before joining the Pentagon , Donald Rumsfeld was a key player as well .
A longstanding sidekick of Cheney , Rumsfeld traveled to Baghdad in 1983 and 1984 at the behest of former Bechtel Corporation President George Shultz , then passing a bit of non @-@ corporate time as US Secretary of State .
Rumsfeld &apos;s hidden mission was to win Saddam &apos;s support of a Bechtel @-@ built oil pipeline to run from Iraq via Jordan to the Gulf of Aqaba .
This is the same Bechtel which built Saddam &apos;s &quot; dual use &quot; chemical industry ; now it has been awarded a non @-@ competitive $ 600 million mega @-@ contract to rebuild Iraqi infrastructure .
American newspapers now report that former Shell Oil CEO Philip Carroll will be appointed as the US czar of Iraqi oil .
Carroll &apos;s most recent job was as Chief Executive of Fluor , the giant construction conglomerate , another company that , together with Bechtel and Halliburton , is in line for the big bucks that will soon be paid ( using Iraq &apos;s oil earnings ) for US @-@ led reconstruction .
The United Kingdom can &apos;t match the US in cronyism , but Britain &apos;s support for America in the war also has a commercial logic .
While Saddam gave oil contracts to French , Russian , and Chinese oil firms , UK firms such as BP were frozen out .
UK firms are no doubt counting on returning to Iraq on America &apos;s coattails .
Only a few hurdles remain before the US can consummate its crony takeover of Iraq &apos;s oil .
America will soon try to appoint an Iraqi regime that will aim to cancel many of Saddam &apos;s oil contracts with France , Russia , and China , in order to make room for US and UK firms .
But this will be harder to accomplish than simply sending in the US army .
The US can not legally market Iraqi oil , much less invest in new fields , until the old UN sanctions against Iraq are lifted .
But the rest of the world believes that lifting the sanctions is tantamount to handing Iraq &apos;s oil future over to the US and UK occupying forces and their corporate cronies .
More telling , and significant in the long term , is the remarkable anti @-@ US and anti @-@ UK sentiment now sweeping Iraq .
Rather than being welcomed as liberators , the US and UK are seen as new colonial occupiers , and the Iraqis are mobilizing to push the occupiers out .
The US may have done something few could have expected : united the Shi &apos;ites and the Sunnis in a common cause .
Democracy may come to Iraq , and the will of the people will be to stop the plunder of their country &apos;s natural resources by US crony capitalists .
The Indispensable American Partner
MADRID - The United States is gearing up for that most intoxicating ( and exhausting ) of political events : an open @-@ seat race for the presidency .
With US President Barack Obama &apos;s eight years in office coming to an end , and Vice President Joe Biden unlikely to run , the race will be without an incumbent .
As a result , the election could be less a referendum on the last eight years than a contest of ideas , with foreign policy emerging as a key topic .
The potential candidates have already sought to stake out their positions on key foreign @-@ policy issues , with early Republican frontrunner Jeb Bush , for example , delivering a speech devoted entirely to the topic .
As for the Democrats , former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton &apos;s likely nomination ( despite recent revelations that she used her personal email account to conduct government business ) reinforces foreign policy &apos;s centrality to the election .
Recognizing this trend , the World Economic Forum Global Agenda Council has brought together a group of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance into the foreign @-@ policy discussions leading up to the US election , including by preparing a public discussion paper .
From my perspective as the group &apos;s only European member , the overarching message should be that the US must conceive of itself not as &quot; the indispensable power , &quot; as it now does , but as &quot; the indispensable partner . &quot;
This is not merely a matter of semantics ; such a change will require the US to re @-@ conceive its role in the world .
But the payoff , for both the US and the liberal world order that it created , would be substantial .
The key to success will be America &apos;s ability to retain the best - and abandon the worst - of that most American of notions : exceptionalism .
The sense in the US that the country is unique , with a special mission to promote prosperity , security , and freedom worldwide , has long shaped American foreign policy .
The idea extends as far back as 1630 , when John Winthrop , the Massachusetts Bay Colony &apos;s first governor , declared that his community must act as a &quot; city upon a hill , &quot; setting an example for the world .
In doing so , he planted the seed of the values @-@ based approach that was adopted by the US as it spearheaded the development of the rules and structures that order today &apos;s world .
Those rules and structures have delivered unprecedented economic growth , benefiting all ( though the US has reaped the greatest rewards ) .
But , ironically , the notion of American exceptionalism often has led the US to undermine the international system that it nurtured .
Indeed , US history reveals a persistent isolationist streak , in which the &quot; city upon a hill &quot; is not a beacon , but a fortress .
At times , including over the last six years , the belief that the US is better off going it alone has led to withdrawal from the world .
This tendency was not a serious issue before World War II ( though the people of Abyssinia and Manchuria may beg to differ ) .
But today , US withdrawal from the international system that it built has serious ramifications - namely , the kind of chaos and lawlessness exemplified by Russia &apos;s invasion of Ukraine .
Yet isolationism is not America &apos;s most destructive impulse .
Worse is its &quot; exemptionalism &quot; : its penchant for opting out of the rules that it promotes - and often actively enforces - elsewhere .
The lengthy - and growing - list of major international conventions left unratified by the US includes the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court , the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women , the Mine Ban Convention , the Convention on the Rights of the Child , and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities .
Beyond the resentment that such an attitude engenders , American exemptionalism directly undermines multilateral institutions &apos; capacity to address challenges that the US is unwilling or unable to resolve on its own .
How can the US expect China to follow rules on maritime delimitation in the East and South China Seas when it refuses to ratify the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea ?
US President Barack Obama &apos;s administration has tried to create the illusion of a change of course in this regard , pushing &quot; soft &quot; deals that allow the US to participate without submitting to binding rules .
Such was the case with the much @-@ lauded &quot; handshake agreement &quot; between Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping on carbon @-@ dioxide emissions in November .
But , though such arrangements make for great headlines , they do not provide the stability and predictability necessary for long @-@ term success .
For that , hard rules and strong institutions are essential .
If the US is to serve as the world &apos;s &quot; indispensable partner , &quot; it must recommit to the rules @-@ based order that has served it - and the world - so well for the last seven decades .
It should begin by strengthening the flagging institutions that have served as the backbone of the liberal international order .
Specifically , the US should finally approve the International Monetary Fund reform package that was agreed in 2010 ; promote real progress at the Non @-@ Proliferation Treaty Review Conference in May ; and ensure that this December &apos;s UN Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference in Paris yields formal commitments .
Indispensable partnership is about helping countries help themselves .
It requires vision , commitment , and , most important , leadership .
A frank discussion about America &apos;s foreign policy could prove vital to ensuring that this &quot; city upon a hill &quot; remains a beacon of hope - and a catalyst of progress .
American Foreign Policy after Iraq
What comes after Iraq ?
If President George W. Bush &apos;s current troop &quot; surge &quot; fails to produce an outcome that can be called &quot; victory , &quot; what lessons will the United States draw for its future foreign policy ?
Will it turn inward , as it did after its defeat in Vietnam three decades ago ?
Will it turn from promoting democracy to a narrow realist view of its interests ?
Even while discussion in Washington is fixated on Iraq , a number of thoughtful foreign observers are asking these longer @-@ term questions .
Analysts and pundits have often been mistaken about America &apos;s position in the world .
For example , two decades ago , the conventional wisdom was that the US was in decline .
A decade later , with the Cold War &apos;s end , the new conventional wisdom was that the world was a unipolar American hegemony .
Some neo @-@ conservative pundits drew the conclusion that the US was so powerful that it could decide what it thought was right , and others would have to follow .
Charles Krauthammer celebrated this view as &quot; the new unilateralism , &quot; and it heavily influenced the Bush administration even before the attacks on September 11 , 2001 .
But the new unilateralism was based on a profound misunderstanding of the nature of power in world politics .
Power is the ability to get the outcomes one wants .
Whether the possession of resources will produce such outcomes depends upon the context .
For example , a large , modern tank army is a powerful resource if a war is fought in a desert , but not if it is fought in a swamp - as America discovered in Vietnam .
In the past , it was assumed that military power dominated most issues , but in today &apos;s world , the contexts of power differ greatly .
I have likened the distribution of power in politics today as analogous to a three @-@ dimensional chess game .
On the top board - military relations among states - the world is , indeed , unipolar , and likely to remain that way for decades .
But on the middle board of economic relations , the world is already multipolar , and the US cannot obtain the outcomes it wants without the cooperation of Europe , Japan , China , and others .
And , on the bottom board of transnational issues outside the control of governments - including everything from climate change to pandemics to transnational terrorism - power is chaotically distributed , and it makes no sense at all to claim American hegemony .
Yet it is on this bottom board that we find most of the greatest challenges we face today .
The only way to grapple with these problems is through cooperation with others , and that requires the &quot; soft &quot; power of attraction as well as the hard power of coercion .
There is no simple military solution that will produce the outcomes we want .
The new unilateralists who dominated Bush &apos;s first administration made the mistake of thinking that the unipolar distribution of power in the military context was sufficient to guide foreign policy .
They were like a young boy with a hammer who thinks that every problem resembles a nail .
The danger of their approach is now obvious .
Whoever plays a three @-@ dimensional game by focusing on only one board is bound to lose in the long run .
Fortunately , the pendulum has begun to swing back toward cooperation .
In Bush &apos;s second term , some of the most extreme unilateralists have departed from the government , and the president has approached difficult problems like North Korea or Iran with a more multilateral approach than during his first term .
Likewise , for all the complaints about the United Nations , the US and others turned to UN peacekeepers to sort out the mess after the Lebanon War last summer .
The Iraq War , in particular , increased public awareness of the mistakes in Bush &apos;s first term , but other issues are changing as well .
Americans now view cooperative action on global climate change more favorably .
Similarly , the threat of pandemics means that Americans may come to recognize the importance of a stronger World Health Organization , just as the problem of nuclear proliferation is increasing awareness of the importance of the International Atomic Energy Agency .
The nature of these problems means that the US does not have the luxury of turning inward no matter what the outcome in Iraq .
These are not problems you can leave overseas .
They follow you home .
It also is unlikely that American foreign policy will return to a narrow realism and drop all emphasis on democracy and human rights .
While the Iraq War discredited the idea of coercive democratization , both Republicans and Democrats have a strong strand of idealism in their foreign policy orientations .
The problem for whoever is elected president in 2008 will be to find appropriate realistic means to advance democratic values and adjust official rhetoric accordingly .
When rhetoric greatly outstrips reality , others view it as hypocrisy .
Americans will need to find ways to assert their narrative of democracy , freedom , and rights in a manner that respects diversity and the views of others .
What Iraq has taught is the importance of developing civil society and the rule of law before trying to hold broad @-@ based elections .
Democracy is more than voting , for it requires large investments in education , institutions , and promotion of non @-@ governmental organizations .
It must be rooted in the indigenous society and bear its characteristics , not be imposed from abroad .
It is highly unlikely that the US will react after Iraq as it did after Vietnam .
The paradox of American power is that the world &apos;s only military superpower cannot protect its citizens by acting alone .
America &apos;s Global Balancing Act
With Russia &apos;s invasion of Ukraine and annexation of Crimea , the disintegration of Iraq &apos;s and Syria &apos;s borders , and increasing Chinese assertiveness in the South and East China Seas , the post @-@ Cold War era appears to have ended in 2014 .
Is that true ?
The post @-@ Cold War era was not really an &quot; era , &quot; but rather a gradual transition from a bilateral Cold War to a more complex international order that still involves , in the final analysis , two world powers .
In brief , the decisive axis of the new order increasingly involves the United States and the People &apos;s Republic of China .
The Sino @-@ American competition involves two significant realities that distinguish it from the Cold War : neither party is excessively ideological in its orientation ; and both parties recognize that they really need mutual accommodation .
America &apos;s supposed &quot; pivot to Asia &quot; took a back seat in 2014 to the crises in Ukraine and the Middle East .
To what extent has uncertainty about the US commitment in Asia stoked tension between China and America &apos;s Asian allies ?
I disagree with the premises of the question .
I do think America has made it quite clear that it is in the interest both of America and China to avoid situations in which they will be pushed toward a collision .
The recent indications of some initial dialogue between China and India , and between China and Japan , suggest that China also realizes that escalating old grievances is not in its interest .
The more serious problem with the &quot; pivot to Asia &quot; was its actual wording , which implied a military posture designed to &quot; contain &quot; or &quot; isolate &quot; China .
The Chinese have come to realize more clearly that we were not deliberately attempting to isolate them , but that we had a stake in the avoidance of collisions in the Far East that could produce a wider spillover .
Xi Jinping has used his war on corruption to concentrate more power in his hands than any Chinese leader since Deng Xiaoping , 30 years ago .
How do you see Xi &apos;s presidency evolving ?
Power in China is somewhat informally defined , and its limits are set more by political realities than by constitutional arrangements .
That makes it difficult to say whether Xi &apos;s power is greater than any Chinese leader &apos;s since Deng .
He certainly has an authoritative personality and without doubt is more active on the international scene than some of his predecessors .
He has also been very decisive in attacking the growing corruption that has become a major source of internal malaise , reaching even the highest levels of government .
In that respect , it may be argued that his power is more wide @-@ ranging than that of his predecessors , but in fairness it must also be noted that the patterns of corruption that his predecessors faced were not as acute and widespread as they have become in recent years .
At the same time , the increasing emphasis in party journals on the proposition that China &apos;s armed forces must be viewed as servants of the Communist Party , and not simply of the nation , seems to suggest concern that the military may be developing its own view of Chinese domestic affairs , in addition to proclaiming with increasing assertiveness its responsibility for national security .
The Party elite , quite understandably , does not find this reassuring .
Can Russian President Vladimir Putin &apos;s regime withstand a prolonged period of low energy prices and Western sanctions ?
What risks do you see emerging should Russia &apos;s economy continue to decline , with Putin increasingly unable to reward his political base ?
There is , of course , a danger that at some point Putin may choose to lash out and create a truly massive international crisis , and perhaps precipitate some new form of direct East @-@ West warfare .
But to say that , one must also assume that to some extent he himself is unbalanced and has shifted from a kind of guerilla warfare against the West , always with some possibility of retreat , to all @-@ out combat .
The outcome of that would be inherently unpredictable , but probably in any case very destructive for Russian wellbeing .
If Russia &apos;s economy continues to decline , and if the West succeeds in deterring Putin from further use of force , it is still conceivable that some acceptable resolution ( a form of which I recommended publicly by talking about the Finland model ) may be contrived .
But that depends in turn on the West &apos;s firmness in supporting Ukraine &apos;s efforts to stabilize itself .
Following the withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan and Iraq , much of the world now perceives the US as being in a period of &quot; retreat , &quot; similar to the post @-@ Vietnam War era .
Is the US embracing a form of neo @-@ isolationism ?
Or will America &apos;s apparent inward turn be as brief as it was following Vietnam ?
I do not believe that the US is in a &quot; period of retreat . &quot;
The fact of the matter is that the redistribution of global power has produced a situation in which the US is no longer the sole hegemon .
The US has to acknowledge the fact that the world is now much more complex .
The spread of conflict throughout the Middle East is currently precipitated more by the rise of religious sectarianism than by American interventionism .
In these volatile circumstances , greater attention must be given to the national interests of countries such as Turkey , Iran , Saudi Arabia , Egypt , and Israel .
By the same token , the interests of any one of them must not be allowed to become the total interest of the US .
What may surprise the world most in 2015 ?
Perhaps the gradual reappearance in Russia of a more politically assertive liberal middle class .
That middle class was beginning to play a more significant role in shaping domestic and international Russian policy under Dmitri Medvedev .
With Putin &apos;s return to power and his recent adventurism , it has been pushed aside by deliberately awakened and intensely stimulated national chauvinism .
Waving a chauvinist banner , however , may not be the best solution for dealing with international problems , especially if the West is intelligent and united .
The Russian middle class , quite naturally , wishes to live in a society like that of Western Europe .
A Russia that gradually begins to gravitate toward the West will also be a Russia that ceases to disrupt the international system .
America &apos;s Enemy Within
NEW YORK - Barring any unexpected new revelations , there is not much to be learned from the Tsarnaev brothers , better known as &quot; the Boston bombers . &quot;
We can dig into their family histories in strife @-@ torn Dagestan , or examine , once again , the lethal appeal of Islamist radicalism .
But I doubt that this would be enlightening .
The elder brother , Tamerlan , who died in a gun battle with the police , appears to fit perfectly the profile of what the German writer Hans Magnus Enzensberger calls &quot; the radical loser . &quot;
And his younger brother , Dzhokhar , recovering from gunshot wounds in a Boston hospital while waiting to be put on trial for his life , seems to have been a pathetic follower who acted less out of deep conviction than out of fraternal love .
The radical loser is the kind of young man who feels victimized by an unfeeling , uncaring world .
That sour sense of rejection , felt by many confused youths , turns for some into a fierce desire for vengeance .
Like Samson in the temple of Gaza , he wishes to destroy himself in a public act of violence , taking as many people as possible with him .
Anything can trigger this final act : a lover &apos;s rejection , a job application denied .
In the case of Tamerlan , a talented boxer , he was denied the chance to become a champion because he was not yet a United States citizen .
Radical Islamism offered him a ready @-@ made cause to die for .
More interesting , and in a way far more disturbing , has been the reaction in the US to the Boston bombings , which killed three people and injured 264 .
Even after Tamerlan had died , and Dzhokhar , already wounded , was the only known fugitive , the Boston authorities decided to close down the entire city .
Public transport was halted , trains to and from the city were stopped , shops and business closed , and citizens were told to stay home .
Until the surviving bomber was found , Boston was reduced to a ghost town .
If two troubled young men with homemade bombs cobbled together from fertilizer and pressure cookers can have this effect on a major American city , one can imagine how tempting their example must now be to other radical losers , not to mention radical groups .
It shows how vulnerable a modern city can be when its leaders lose their nerve .
The authorities &quot; overblown reaction - and that of much of the press - was all the odder for having occurred just as the US Senate was voting down a bill that would have made it harder for known killers and mentally disturbed people to buy guns , or for private individuals to acquire weapons normally used only in warfare .
It seems as though Americans can tolerate a society in which schoolchildren and other innocents are regularly murdered by deranged men with weapons bought on the open market , but erupt in collective hysteria when the killings are committed by people labeled as &quot; terrorists . &quot;
This may reflect what people are accustomed to .
The Spanish had grown so inured to acts of violence from Basque separatists that the murder of 191 people in Madrid by Islamist extremists in 2004 was met with remarkable sang @-@ froid .
When 52 people were killed in a suicide bombing on the London Underground the following year , the British , too , reacted with relative calm , having lived through years of Irish terrorist violence in the 1970 &quot; s .
Like the Spanish , they were used to it .
Americans , despite the attacks of September 11 , 2001 , are not .
Worse than that , a number of Republican senators , including such luminaries as John McCain , called for stripping Dzhokhar Tsarnaev , who is a US citizen , of his legal rights and placing him before a military tribunal as an &quot; enemy combatant , &quot; as though the 19 @-@ year @-@ old college student were a soldier in a war against America .
Exaggerated fear of outside enemies has always been part of the American political landscape .
The &quot; nation of immigrants &quot; was traditionally regarded as a refuge from danger .
The evil outside world should not be able to touch the Land of the Free .
When it does - Pearl Harbor , September 2001 - all hell breaks loose .
Another factor may be the need for a common enemy in a country whose citizens come from so many different cultures and traditions .
Besieged by Communists or Islamists , people feel a sense of belonging .
Defense of the nation against dangerous outsiders - and their domestic agents , whether real or imagined - provides a powerful bond .
Such bonds can be useful , even necessary , in times of war .
But the politics of fear poses a danger to the US itself .
The aim of political terrorist groups , such as Al Qaeda , is to provoke retaliation and maximize publicity for their cause .
As common criminals , such groups &quot; members would not achieve this goal .
But by claiming to be soldiers at war with the world &apos;s biggest military power , they gain sympathy , as well as recruits , among the radical losers and the disaffected .
Former President George W. Bush once explained terrorism as the expression of hatred for American freedom .
But when terrorism results in torture of prisoners , ever more police surveillance , and official threats to US citizens &quot; legal rights - or , for that matter , when a crime committed by two young immigrants causes an entire city to be shut down - Americans &quot; government is harming their freedom more than any terrorist could ever hope to do .
American Funk
NEW YORK - The eccentric Bengali intellectual Nirad C. Chaudhuri once explained the end of the British Raj in India as a case of &quot; funk , &quot; or loss of nerve .
The British had stopped believing in their own empire .
They simply lost the will , in Rudyard Kipling &apos;s famous words , to fight &quot; the savage wars of peace . &quot;
In fact , Kipling &apos;s poem , &quot; The White Man &apos;s Burden , &quot; which exhorted the white race to spread its values to the &quot; new @-@ caught sullen peoples , half devil and half child , &quot; was not about the British Empire at all , but about the United States .
Subtitled &quot; The United States and the Philippine Islands , &quot; it was published in 1899 , just as the US was waging a &quot; savage war of peace &quot; of its own .
Chaudhuri had a point .
It is difficult to sustain an empire without the will to use force when necessary .
Much political rhetoric , and a spate of new books , would have us believe that the US is now in a dangerous state of funk .
For example , Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney likes to castigate President Barack Obama for &quot; apologizing for America &apos;s international power , &quot; for daring to suggest that the US is not &quot; the greatest country on earth , &quot; and for being &quot; pessimistic . &quot;
By contrast , Romney promises to &quot; restore &quot; America &apos;s greatness and international power , which he proposes to do by boosting American military force .
Romney &apos;s Kipling is the neo @-@ conservative intellectual Robert Kagan , whose new book , The World America Made , argues against &quot; the myth of American decline . &quot; Yes , he admits , China is growing in strength , but US dominance is still overwhelming ; American military might can still &quot; make right &quot; against any challenger .
The only real danger to US power is &quot; declinism &quot; : the loss of self @-@ belief , the temptation to &quot; escape from the moral and material burdens that have weighed on &#91; Americans &#93; since World War II . &quot; In a word , funk .
Like Chaudhuri , Kagan is an engaging writer .
His arguments sound reasonable .
And his assessment of US firepower is no doubt correct .
True , he has little time for domestic problems like antiquated infrastructure , failing public schools , an appalling health care system , and grotesque disparities in income and wealth .
But he is surely right to observe that no other power is threatening to usurp America &apos;s role as the world &apos;s military policeman .
Less certain , however , is the premise that the world order would collapse without &quot; American leadership . &quot;
France &apos;s King Louis XV allegedly declared on his deathbed : &quot; Après moi , le déluge &quot; ( After me , the flood ) .
This is the conceit of all great powers .
Even as the British were dismantling their empire after World War II , the French and Dutch still believed that parting with their Asian possessions would result in chaos .
And it is still common to hear autocratic leaders who inherited parts of the Western empires claim that democracy is all well and good , but the people are not yet ready for it .
Those who monopolize power cannot imagine a world released from their grip as anything but a catastrophe .
In Europe after World War II , Pax Americana , guaranteed by US military power , was designed &quot; to keep the Russians out and Germany down . &quot;
In Asia , it was meant to contain communism , while allowing allies , from Japan to Indonesia , to build up economic strength .
Spreading democracy was not the main concern ; stopping communism - in Asia , Europe , Africa , the Middle East , and the Americas - was .
In this respect , it succeeded , though at great human cost .
But , now that the specter of global communist domination has joined other fears - real and imagined - in the dustbin of history , it is surely time for countries to start handling their own affairs .
Japan , in alliance with other Asian democracies , should be able to counterbalance China &apos;s growing power .
Similarly , Europeans are rich enough to manage their own security .
But neither Japan nor the European Union seems ready to pull its own weight , owing in part to decades of dependency on US security .
As long as Uncle Sam continues to police the world , his children won &apos;t grow up .
In any case , as we have seen in Iraq and Afghanistan , &quot; savage wars of peace &quot; are not always the most effective way to conduct foreign policy .
Old @-@ fashioned military dominance is no longer adequate to promote American interests .
The Chinese are steadily gaining influence in Africa , not with bombers , but with money .
Meanwhile , propping up secular dictators in the Middle East with US arms has helped to create Islamist extremism , which cannot be defeated by simplysending more drones .
The notion promoted by Romney and his boosters that only US military power can preserve world order is deeply reactionary .
It is a form of Cold War nostalgia - a dream of returning to a time when much of the globe was recovering from a ruinous world war and living in fear of communism .
Obama &apos;s recognition of America &apos;s limitations is not a sign of cowardly pessimism , but of realistic wisdom .
His relative discretion in the Middle East has allowed people there to act for themselves .
We do not yet know what the outcome there will be , but &quot; the greatest country on earth &quot; cannot impose a solution .
Nor should it .
American Gulag
Recently , the United States achieved the dubious honor of boasting the largest prison and jail population on earth .
It reached this zenith by surpassing cash @-@ strapped Russia - long its only rival as a mass imprisonment society - after Russia released thousands of inmates so as to save money .
A few years earlier , as America rushed to lock up ever more of its population for ever @-@ pettier offenses , the absolute size of its incarcerated population surpassed that of China - despite China &apos;s population being more than four times that of America .
According to research conducted by the British Home Office , America now incarcerates over one fifth of the world &apos;s total prisoners .
There is something bitterly ironic in this . For America really is a land of liberty , a place where lives , often scarred by injustice elsewhere , can be remade .
How tragic , therefore , that over the past twenty years , the country &apos;s political leaders have so often decided to deal with many of the most noxious side @-@ effects of poverty - from chronic drug use and the establishment of street drug markets , to hustling , to gang membership and the spraying of graffiti on public buildings - through a vast over @-@ reliance on incarceration .
How doubly tragic that this has occurred in tandem with a political assault on the Great Society anti @-@ poverty programs put in place during the 1960s ; that the investments in infrastructure , public education , public healthcare and job training which might curtail crime more effectively are , instead , being replaced by massive public expenditures on building new prisons to incarcerate hundreds of thousands of low @-@ level offenders .
With such vicious cycles of crime , punishment and dis @-@ investment in poor communities it is no surprise that the prison population has expanded to such an extent .
The numbers buttressing this sprawling prison system are extraordinary .
Approximately two million Americans are now serving either prison or jail time , over one million of them for non @-@ violent offenses ( a preponderance of these either for drug use or low @-@ level drug sales ) .
Per hundred thousand residents , the US has an incarceration rate over five times that of England , six times that of Canada , and seven times that of Germany .
Somewhere in the region of 10 % of African American men in their twenties live behind bars .
In some states , where a single felony conviction is enough to bar the offender from ever being able to vote again , over one quarter of African American males are disenfranchised .
High levels of disenfranchisement in Florida likely played a critical role in the much @-@ disputed electoral victory of President Bush .
Since 1980 , a virtual &quot; prison industrial complex &quot; has arisen , with phenomenal rates of new @-@ prison construction abetted by lucrative construction and prison @-@ guard union lobbies .
Several states , including California , now spend more on prisons than they do on higher education .
Despite dramatically falling crime rates over the last ten years ( which most criminologists attribute more to demography - there have simply been fewer young men of late - than incarceration ) , prison populations have continued to soar .
Much of that increase has more to do with public perceptions about supposed crime waves and ham @-@ handed public and political responses to occasional headline @-@ capturing murders , than any actual underlying crime rate .
As the actual number of truly heinous crimes has in fact fallen , increasingly it is small @-@ time hoodlums , drug users , and mentally ill people who have been drawing long spells behind bars .
America today has five times as many prisoners as it did in 1980 .
One of the most dismaying developments is the spread of so @-@ called &quot; three @-@ strikes @-@ and @-@ you &apos;re out &quot; laws .
California &apos;s version , passed by citizen referendum in 1993 and ratcheted into place by state legislators in 1994 , provides for the life imprisonment of any criminal with two previous serious convictions who is found guilty of any third felony .
By the end of last year there were about 7,000 people serving life sentences in California under this law .
Many thousands of them are serving life for small @-@ time &quot; Third Strikes &quot; : minor drug crimes , car theft , petty fraud , burglary , and drunk driving ( even graffiti spraying , to the tune of $ 400 damage , which has now been reclassified as a felony ) .
One such man is fifty @-@ eight year old heroin addict Billy Ochoa , who is serving a staggering 326 years in a supermax ( super maximum security ) prison for $ 2,100 of welfare fraud .
Because he had been convicted of several burglaries over the previous decades , when Ochoa was caught making fraudulent applications for food stamps and emergency housing vouchers in Los Angeles , he was tried under the Three Strikes law and given sentences on thirteen separate counts to be served in one of the toughest , most secure prisons in America .
Ochoa &apos;s sentence , apart from its extravagant cruelty , may ultimately cost taxpayers as much as a million dollars .
In many high security American prisons , inmates are routinely kept in virtual isolation , fed in their cells , allowed out for only half an hour of exercise a day , sometimes denied a TV , a radio , or even decorations for their concrete walls - conditions which have been documented to drive many of them into states of serious psychosis .
How can things have come to this America ?
Now is the time - with the world watching America fight to defend its values - for the worst excesses of its criminal justice system to be addressed .
It is a tragedy that a great democracy should have so ugly and vast a prison system corroding both its reputation and its polity .
American Hegemony or American Primacy ?
CAMBRIDGE - No country in modern history has possessed as much global military power as the United States .
Yet some analysts now argue that the US is following in the footsteps of the United Kingdom , the last global hegemon to decline .
This historical analogy , though increasingly popular , is misleading .
Britain was never as dominant as the US is today .
To be sure , it maintained a navy equal in size to the next two fleets combined , and its empire , on which the sun never set , ruled over a quarter of humankind .
But there were major differences in the relative power resources of imperial Britain and contemporary America .
By the outbreak of World War I , Britain ranked only fourth among the great powers in terms of military personnel , fourth in terms of GDP , and third in military spending .
The British Empire was ruled in large part through reliance on local troops .
Of the 8.6 million British forces in WWI , nearly a third came from the overseas empire .
That made it increasingly difficult for the government in London to declare war on behalf of the empire when nationalist sentiments began to intensify .
By World War II , protecting the empire had become more of a burden than an asset .
The fact that the UK was situated so close to powers like Germany and Russia made matters even more challenging .
For all the loose talk of an &quot; American empire , &quot; the fact is that the US does not have colonies that it must administer , and thus has more freedom to maneuver than the UK did .
And , surrounded by unthreatening countries and two oceans , it finds it far easier to protect itself .
That brings us to another problem with the global hegemon analogy : the confusion over what &quot; hegemony &quot; actually means .
Some observers conflate the concept with imperialism ; but the US is clear evidence that a hegemon does not have to have a formal empire .
Others define hegemony as the ability to set the rules of the international system ; but precisely how much influence over this process a hegemon must have , relative to other powers , remains unclear .
Still others consider hegemony to be synonymous with control of the most power resources .
But , by this definition , nineteenth @-@ century Britain - which at the height of its power in 1870 ranked third ( behind the US and Russia ) in GDP and third ( behind Russia and France ) in military expenditures - could not be considered hegemonic , despite its naval dominance .
Similarly , those who speak of American hegemony after 1945 fail to note that the Soviet Union balanced US military power for more than four decades .
Though the US had disproportionate economic clout , its room for political and military maneuver was constrained by Soviet power .
Some analysts describe the post @-@ 1945 period as a US @-@ led hierarchical order with liberal characteristics , in which the US provided public goods while operating within a loose system of multilateral rules and institutions that gave weaker states a say .
They point out that it may be rational for many countries to preserve this institutional framework , even if American power resources decline .
In this sense , the US @-@ led international order could outlive America &apos;s primacy in power resources , though many others argue that the emergence of new powers portends this order &apos;s demise .
But , when it comes to the era of supposed US hegemony , there has always been a lot of fiction mixed in with the facts .
It was less a global order than a group of like @-@ minded countries , largely in the Americas and Western Europe , which comprised less than half of the world .
And its effects on non @-@ members - including significant powers like China , India , Indonesia , and the Soviet bloc - were not always benign .
Given this , the US position in the world could more accurately be called a &quot; half @-@ hegemony . &quot;
Of course , America did maintain economic dominance after 1945 : the devastation of WWII in so many countries meant that the US produced nearly half of global GDP .
That position lasted until 1970 , when the US share of global GDP fell to its pre @-@ war level of one @-@ quarter .
But , from a political or military standpoint , the world was bipolar , with the Soviet Union balancing America &apos;s power .
Indeed , during this period , the US often could not defend its interests : the Soviet Union acquired nuclear weapons ; communist takeovers occurred in China , Cuba , and half of Vietnam ; the Korean War ended in a stalemate ; and revolts in Hungary and Czechoslovakia were repressed .
Against this background , &quot; primacy &quot; seems like a more accurate description of a country &apos;s disproportionate ( and measurable ) share of all three kinds of power resources : military , economic , and soft .
The question now is whether the era of US primacy is coming to an end .
Given the unpredictability of global developments , it is , of course , impossible to answer this question definitively .
The rise of transnational forces and non @-@ state actors , not to mention emerging powers like China , suggests that there are big changes on the horizon .
But there is still reason to believe that , at least in the first half of this century , the US will retain its primacy in power resources and continue to play the central role in the global balance of power .
In short , while the era of US primacy is not over , it is set to change in important ways .
Whether or not these changes will bolster global security and prosperity remains to be seen .
Renewing American Leadership
MADRID - December always provides an opportunity to pause and reflect on what was and what will be .
This year , one of the conclusions that such reflection yields is that the United States remains firmly at the center of the liberal world order .
Another is that the US needs to do more to lead in the way that its international standing demands .
Doubts about America &apos;s continued global leadership have been proliferating for years .
But , though the much @-@ discussed multi @-@ polar world order may well be in the cards , the reality is that , for now , efforts to address global challenges - from climate change to conflict in the Middle East - demand US engagement .
Unfortunately , the narrative of American decline has gained so much traction in recent years that even US officials seem to have started to believe it , pursuing weak and piecemeal policies ( or , in some cases , doing nothing at all ) .
President Barack Obama &apos;s restrained foreign @-@ policy approach appears to be fueling , not reducing , global instability .
The reasons for this lack of strong action are disputed .
Some blame Obama &apos;s own fears about repeating his predecessors &quot; mistakes ; others blame a hostile Congress for tying his hands .
In fact , both factors may be at work .
It may well be true that Obama would rather exercise caution - even when bold action is called for - than act impulsively and potentially cause more damage .
But the negative impact of an obstructionist , highly partisan US Congress should not be underestimated .
For example , by blocking reforms to International Monetary Fund governance that were agreed in 2010 , Congress has damaged , perhaps irreparably , the legitimacy and relevance of the Bretton Woods institutions .
Likewise , by refusing to ratify the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea , the US Congress has undermined America &apos;s credibility as it attempts to reaffirm international law in the South China Sea , where China is acting with increasing audacity .
And , by opposing the inclusion of legally binding climate commitments , it weakened the global climate agreement that was reached this month in Paris , leaving compliance and implementation uncertain .
Stalemate has become the name of the game in US politics in recent years .
That is why next year &apos;s presidential election is so crucial .
It offers an opportunity for a fresh start , a new approach that produces the type of policy actions that the world needs .
The key is engagement - among branches of the US government , between the US government and the public , and between the US and the rest of the world .
For starters , to avoid the kind of obstructionism that prevailed in the last eight years , the next president must engage Congress directly and actively .
And , in fact , two of the Obama administration &apos;s recent wins - the passage of so @-@ called trade promotion authority ( fast @-@ track negotiating authority to conclude the Trans @-@ Pacific Partnership ) and the reauthorization of the small but vital Export @-@ Import Bank - were the result of dedicated outreach , education , and , yes , cajoling of lawmakers .
The Iran nuclear agreement , one of Obama &apos;s hallmark achievements , involved similar efforts to engage Congress , from protracted trips to Capitol Hill by Obama administration officials to a creative approach that allowed legislators to display their displeasure for the deal , without blocking its progress .
Even in America &apos;s highly divisive political atmosphere , it seems , where there is a will , there is a way .
America &apos;s next president must also improve engagement with citizens , whose widespread disaffection constrains - or allows - US leaders to pursue a weak foreign policy .
Like many Europeans today , most Americans do not seem to understand - or care to understand - that the crumbling of the liberal world order would have dire consequences for all of them .
It was not always this way .
Immediately after World War II , the memory of war , together with the enduring threat posed by the Soviet Union , made plain the importance of building and maintaining a liberal world order .
Today , though the need for such an order is just as great , the argument is not nearly as comprehensible or emotionally powerful .
Discussion of rules and institutions comes across as bloodless .
It is up to political leaders - and especially the president - to figure out how to make a compelling case about what is at stake .
Only this approach can secure the mandate from the public that the next US president will need to engage effectively with other world leaders .
And make no mistake : Such engagement is indispensable .
While the US must play an integral role in addressing global challenges , from ending the Syrian civil war to following through on the promises of the Paris climate agreement , it cannot do it alone .
Real progress will demand real cooperation .
In the second half of the twentieth century , the US showed that committed leadership could help to ensure widespread stability and prosperity .
In the twenty @-@ first century , it has showed how devastating a lack of such leadership can be .
Finger pointing will not fix anything .
Only by pursuing genuine , deep , and sustained engagement , both at home and abroad , can the next administration ensure that the coming years will be better than the last .
American Pie in the Sky
NEW YORK - While the risk of a disorderly crisis in the eurozone is well recognized , a more sanguine view of the United States has prevailed .
For the last three years , the consensus has been that the US economy was on the verge of a robust and self @-@ sustaining recovery that would restore above @-@ potential growth .
That turned out to be wrong , as a painful process of balance @-@ sheet deleveraging - reflecting excessive private @-@ sector debt , and then its carryover to the public sector - implies that the recovery will remain , at best , below @-@ trend for many years to come .
Even this year , the consensus got it wrong , expecting a recovery to above @-@ trend &amp; nbsp ; annual GDP growth - faster than 3 % .
But the first @-@ half growth rate looks set to come in closer to 1.5 % at best , even below 2011 &quot; s dismal 1.7 % .
And now , after getting the first half of 2012 wrong , many are repeating the fairy tale that a combination of lower oil prices , rising auto sales , recovering house prices , and a resurgence of US manufacturing will boost growth in the second half of the year and fuel above @-@ potential growth by 2013 .
The reality is the opposite : for several reasons , growth will slow further in the second half of 2012 and be even lower in 2013 - close to stall speed .
First , growth in the second quarter has decelerated from a mediocre 1.8 % in January @-@ March , as job creation - averaging 70,000 a month - fell sharply .
Second , expectations of the &quot; fiscal cliff &quot; - automatic tax increases and spending cuts set for the end of this year - will keep spending and growth lower through the second half of 2012 .
So will uncertainty about who will be President in 2013 ; about tax rates and spending levels ; about the threat of another government shutdown over the debt ceiling ; and about the risk of another sovereign rating downgrade should political gridlock continue to block a plan for medium @-@ term fiscal consolidation .
In such conditions , most firms and consumers will be cautious about spending - an option value of waiting - thus further weakening the economy .
Third , the fiscal cliff would amount to a 4.5 % -of @-@ GDP drag on growth in 2013 if all tax cuts and transfer payments were allowed to expire and draconian spending cuts were triggered .
Of course , the drag will be much smaller , as tax increases and spending cuts will be much milder .
But , even if the fiscal cliff turns out to be a mild growth bump - a mere 0.5 % of GDP - and annual growth at the end of the year is just 1.5 % , as seems likely , the fiscal drag will suffice to slow the economy to stall speed : a growth rate of barely 1 % .
Fourth , private consumption growth in the last few quarters does not reflect growth in real wages ( which are actually falling ) .
Rather , growth in disposable income ( and thus in consumption ) has been sustained since last year by another $ 1.4 trillion in tax cuts and extended transfer payments , implying another $ 1.4 trillion of public debt .
Unlike the eurozone and the United Kingdom , where a double @-@ dip recession is already under way , owing to front @-@ loaded fiscal austerity , the US has prevented some household deleveraging through even more public @-@ sector releveraging - &amp; nbsp ; that is , by stealing some growth from the future .
In 2013 , as transfer payments are phased out , however gradually , and as some tax cuts are allowed to expire , disposable income growth and consumption growth will slow .
The US will then face not only the direct effects of a fiscal drag , but also its indirect effect on private spending .
Fifth , four external forces will further impede US growth : a worsening eurozone crisis ; an increasingly hard landing for China ; a generalized slowdown of emerging @-@ market economies , owing to cyclical factors ( weak advanced @-@ country growth ) and structural causes ( a state @-@ capitalist model that reduces potential growth ) ; and the risk of higher oil prices in 2013 as negotiations and sanctions fail to convince Iran to abandon its nuclear program .
Policy responses will have very limited effect in stemming the US economy &apos;s deceleration toward stall speed : even with only a mild fiscal drag on growth , the US dollar is likely to strengthen as the eurozone crisis weakens the euro and as global risk aversion returns .
The US Federal Reserve will carry out more quantitative easing this year , but it will be ineffective : long @-@ term interest rates are already very low , and lowering them further would not boost spending .
Indeed , the credit channel is frozen and velocity has collapsed , with banks hoarding increases in base money in the form of excess reserves .
Moreover , the dollar is unlikely to weaken as other countries also carry out quantitative easing .
Similarly , the gravity of weaker growth will most likely overcome the levitational effect on equity prices from more quantitative easing , particularly given that equity valuations today are not as depressed as they were in 2009 or 2010 .
Indeed , growth in earnings and profits is now running out of steam , as the effect of weak demand on top @-@ line revenues takes a toll on bottom @-@ line margins and profitability .
A significant equity @-@ price correction could , in fact , be the force that in 2013 tips the US economy into outright contraction .
And if the US ( still the world &apos;s largest economy ) starts to sneeze again , the rest of the world - its immunity already weakened by Europe &apos;s malaise and emerging countries &quot; slowdown - will catch pneumonia .
American Power after Bin Laden
OXFORD - When one state is preponderant in power resources , observers often refer to the situation as hegemonic .
Today , many pundits argue that other countries &quot; rising power and the loss of American influence in a revolutionary Middle East point to the decline of &quot; American hegemony . &quot;
But the term is confusing .
For one thing , possession of power resources does not always imply that one can get the outcomes one prefers .
Even the recent death of Osama bin Laden at the hands of United States special forces does not indicate anything about American power one way or the other .
To see why , consider the situation after World War II .
The US accounted for more than one @-@ third of global product and had an overwhelming preponderance in nuclear weapons .
Many considered it a global hegemon .
Nonetheless , the US was unable to prevent the &quot; loss &quot; of China , &quot; roll back &quot; communism in Eastern Europe , prevent stalemate in the Korean War , defeat Vietnam &apos;s National Liberation Front , or dislodge the Castro regime in Cuba .
Even in the era of alleged American hegemony , studies show that only one @-@ fifth of America &apos;s efforts to compel change in other countries through military threats were successful , while economic sanctions worked in only half of all cases .
Yet many believe that America &apos;s current preponderance in power resources is hegemonic , and that it will decline , like that of Britain before it .
Some Americans react emotionally to that prospect , though it would be ahistorical to believe that the US will have a preponderant share of power resources forever .
But the term &quot; decline &quot; conflates two different dimensions of power : absolute decline , in the sense of decay or loss of ability to use one &apos;s resources effectively , and relative decline , in which the other states &quot; power resources become greater or are used more effectively .
For example , in the seventeenth century , the Netherlands flourished domestically but declined in relative power as other states grew in strength .
Conversely , the Western Roman Empire did not succumb to another state , but instead to internal decay and swarms of barbarians .
Rome was an agrarian society with low economic productivity and a high level of internecine strife .
While the US has problems , it hardly fits the description of absolute decline in ancient Rome , and the analogy to British decline , however popular , is similarly misleading .
Britain had an empire on which the sun never set , ruled more than a quarter of humankind , and enjoyed naval supremacy .
But there are major differences in the relative power resources of imperial Britain and contemporary America .
By World War I , Britain ranked only fourth among the great powers in terms of military personnel , fourth in GDP , and third in military spending .
The costs of defense averaged 2.5 @-@ 3.4 % of GDP , and the empire was ruled in large part with local troops .
In 1914 , Britain &apos;s net export of capital gave it an important financial kitty to draw upon ( though some historians consider that it would have been better to have invested the money in domestic industry ) .
Of the 8.6 million British forces in WWI , nearly one @-@ third were provided by the overseas empire .
With the rise of nationalism , however , it became increasingly difficult for London to declare war on behalf of the empire , the defense of which became a heavier burden .
By contrast , America has had a continental @-@ scale economy immune from nationalist disintegration since 1865 .
For all the loose talk of American empire , the US is less tethered and has more degrees of freedom than Britain ever had .
Indeed , America &apos;s geopolitical position differs profoundly from that of imperial Britain : while Britain faced rising neighbors in Germany and Russia , America benefits from two oceans and weaker neighbors .
Despite these differences , Americans are prone to cycles of belief in decline .
The Founding Fathers worried about comparisons to the decline of the Roman republic .
Moreover , cultural pessimism is very American , extending back to the country &apos;s Puritan roots .
As Charles Dickens observed a century and a half ago , &quot; if its individual citizens , to a man , are to be believed , &#91; America &#93; always is depressed , and always is stagnated , and always is in an alarming crisis , and never was otherwise . &quot;
More recently , polls showed widespread belief in decline after the Soviet Union launched Sputnik in 1957 , then again during the Nixon @-@ era economic shocks in the 1970 &quot; s , and after Ronald Reagan &apos;s budget deficits in the 1980 &quot; s .
At the end of that decade , American &apos;s believed the country was in decline ; yet , within a decade , they believed that the US was the sole superpower .
Now many have gone back to believing in decline .
Cycles of declinism tell us more about American psychology than about underlying shifts in power resources .
Some observers , such as the Harvard historian Niall Ferguson , believe that &quot; debating the stages of decline may be a waste of time - it is a precipitous and unexpected fall that should most concern policy makers and citizens . &quot;
Ferguson believes that a doubling of public debt in the coming decade cannot erode US strength on its own , but that it could weaken a long @-@ assumed faith in America &apos;s ability to weather any crisis .
Ferguson is correct that the US will have to come to terms with its budget deficit to maintain international confidence , but , as I show in my book The Future of Power , doing so is within the range of possible outcomes .
America enjoyed a budget surplus only a decade ago , before George W. Bush &apos;s tax cuts , two wars , and recession created fiscal instability .
The US economy is still ranked near the top in competitiveness by the World Economic Forum , and the political system , in its own messy way , has slowly begun to wrestle with the necessary changes .
Some believe a political compromise between Republicans and Democrats can be reached before the 2012 election ; others suggest an agreement is more likely after the election .
Either way , fuzzy statements about hegemonic decline would again prove misleading .
American Power and the 2004 Campaign
America &apos;s presidential election campaign is heating up , and with it the debate about American power .
A year ago , after the blitz victory in the four @-@ week Iraq War , many people thought the issue was settled .
But the subsequent difficulties in Iraq - and in America &apos;s foreign relations more generally - have placed that topic at the heart of the election campaign .
It is hard to recall , but a little over a decade ago , conventional wisdom - both inside and outside the US - held that America was in decline .
In 1992 , the winner of the New Hampshire primary election argued that &quot; the Cold War is over - and Japan won . &quot;
When I published Bound to Lead in 1990 , I predicted the continuing rise of American power .
But today I regard it as equally important to challenge the new conventional wisdom that America is invincible , and that the &quot; new unilateralism &quot; should guide US foreign policy .
After the collapse of the Soviet Union , some analysts described the resulting world as unipolar and saw few constraints on American power .
This is misleading .
Power in a global information age is distributed among countries in a pattern that resembles a complex three @-@ dimensional chess game .
On the top chessboard , military power is largely unipolar .
The US is the only country with large state of the art air , naval , and ground forces capable of global deployment - thus , the quick victory in Iraq last year .
But on the middle chessboard , economic power is multi @-@ polar , with the US , Europe , Japan , and China representing two @-@ thirds of world production .
On this economic board , other countries often balance American power .
The bottom chessboard is the realm of transnational relations that cross borders beyond government control .
At the benign end of the spectrum , this realm includes actors as diverse as bankers electronically transferring huge sums ; at the other end are terrorists transferring weapons or hackers disrupting Internet operations .
On this bottom board , power is widely dispersed , and it makes no sense to speak of unipolarity , multipolarity , or hegemony .
Those who recommend a unilateral American foreign policy based on such traditional descriptions of American power are relying on a woefully inadequate analysis .
Many of the real challenges to American power are coming not on the upper military board , on which the unilateralists concentrate , but on the lower transnational board .
Ironically , the temptation to go it alone may ultimately weaken the US in this domain .
Why is this true ?
Today &apos;s information revolution and the type of globalization that accompanies it are transforming and shrinking the world .
At the beginning of the 21st century , these two forces increased American power , particularly the ability to influence others through attractive , or what I call &quot; soft &quot; power .
But with time , technological gains will spread to other countries and peoples , diminishing America &apos;s relative pre @-@ eminence .
For example , today America &apos;s 5 % of the global population represents more than half of all Internet users .
But in a decade or two , Chinese may become the language of the largest number of Internet users .
It will not dethrone English as a lingua franca , but at some point , the Asian market will loom larger than the American market .
Even more important , the information revolution is creating virtual communities and networks that cut across national borders , and transnational corporations and non @-@ governmental actors - terrorists included - will play larger roles .
Many organizations will have soft power of their own as they attract citizens into coalitions that cut across national boundaries .
The terrorist attacks on New York , Washington , and now Madrid are terrible symptoms of the deep changes already occurring .
Technology has been diffusing power away from governments , and empowering individuals and groups to play roles in world politics - including wreaking massive destruction - that were once reserved to governments .
Privatization has been the leitmotif in economic policy in recent years , but in politics the privatization of war is terrorism .
Moreover , as globalization shrinks distance , events in faraway places - like Afghanistan - have a greater impact on everyone &apos;s lives .
The world has moved from the Cold War to the Global Information Age , but the dominant foreign policy paradigms have not kept pace .
Today &apos;s growing global networks of interdependence are putting new items on national and international agendas ; Americans simply cannot solve many of these by themselves .
International financial stability is vital to prosperity , but the US needs the cooperation of others to ensure it .
In a world where borders are becoming more porous than ever to everything from drugs to infectious diseases to terrorism , Americans will be forced to work with other countries beyond their borders .
Because of its leading edge in the information revolution , and its vast investment in traditional power resources , the US will remain the world &apos;s single most powerful country well into this new century .
While potential coalitions to check American power may be created , it is unlikely that they will become firm alliances unless the US handles its hard coercive power in an overbearing unilateral manner that undermines its &quot; soft &quot; or attractive power .
American Retreats
Los Angeles - As Barack Obama &apos;s incoming administration debates the pace and consequences of withdrawal from Iraq , it would do well to examine the strategic impact of other American exits in the final decades of the twentieth century .
Although American commitments to Lebanon , Somalia , Vietnam , and Cambodia differed mightily , history reveals that despite immediate costs to America &apos;s reputation , disengagement ultimately redounded to America &apos;s advantage .
In all of these cases , regional stability of sorts emerged after an American military withdrawal , albeit at the cost of a significant loss of life .
America &apos;s former adversaries either became preoccupied with consolidating or sharing power , suffered domestic defeat , or confronted neighboring states .
Ultimately , America &apos;s vital interests prevailed .
The evidence today suggests that this pattern can be repeated when the United States departs Mesopotamia and leaves Iraqis to define their own fate .
Of the four withdrawals , arguably the 1982 @-@ 1984 American intervention in Lebanon marks the closest parallel to Iraq today .
A country torn by sectarian violence beginning in 1975 , Lebanon pitted an even more complex array of contestants against each other than Iraq does today .
Into this fray stepped the US and its Western allies .
Their objective was to create a military buffer between the PLO and Israeli forces that were then fighting in Beirut in order to promote the departure of both .
The massacres in Palestinian refugee camps prompted a new commitment to &quot; restore a strong and central government &quot; to Lebanon , to quote President Ronald Reagan .
But the result of intervention was that US forces became just one more target , culminating in the 1983 bombing of a US Marine barracks that killed 241 American soldiers .
A similar suicide bombing two days later claimed the lives of 58 French soldiers .
In February 1984 , facing a quagmire , Reagan acceded to Vice President George H.W. Bush &apos;s recommendation to get out of Lebanon .
But the withdrawal of Western forces did not stop the fighting .
The civil war continued for another six years , followed by a bumpy political aftermath : Syrian intervention and expulsion ( two decades later ) , as the Lebanese defined their own fate with the US exercising only background influence .
In 1992 , the sirens of Somalia &apos;s political collapse lured the US into another civil war to save a country from itself .
The US humanitarian mission to that benighted country sought to salvage a failed United Nations enterprise to secure and feed Somalia &apos;s ravaged population .
The US committed 28,000 troops , which for a time imposed a modicum of security .
But ill @-@ equipped and poorly led UN replacement forces for the American presence put the remaining US troops in the bull &apos;s eye as they attempted to bring to justice the Somali warlord responsible for the death of Pakistani peacekeepers .
The ensuing bloodbath of US soldiers generated images that the American public could not stomach , prompting the exit of American and then UN forces .
As unrest mounted with these military retreats , offshore US forces monitored and intercepted jihadists who sought to enter Somalia , while Kenya and Ethiopia blocked the unrest from metastasizing across the region .
In 2006 , the capture of Somalia &apos;s capital , Mogadishu , by the Islamic Courts raised the specter of a jihadist state .
But Somalia soon demonstrated that quagmires can be a two @-@ way street .
Following Ethiopia &apos;s intervention , the Islamists found themselves out of power .
Today , Somalia remains a dysfunctional state , as rival clans , jihadists , and an interim government with Ethiopian support compete for power .
The US , now out of the quagmire , exercises limited influence from afar .
While Lebanon and Somalia remain damaged and failed states , respectively , regional and domestic factors have cauterized the consequences of America &apos;s retreat from Vietnam and Southeast Asia .
The result is the stable region that the world sees today .
But the US saw things very differently in the 1960 &quot; s , when the ghosts of Munich hovered over Vietnam &apos;s jungles .
As President George W. Bush argued about the war in Iraq , US President Lyndon Johnson predicted that defeat in Vietnam &quot; would be renewed in one country and then another . &quot;
What Johnson failed to foresee were the domestic and regional constraints that would prevent the dominos from falling in the way he predicted .
Although the US bombed northeastern Cambodia intensely throughout the Vietnam War years , it had no stomach for a ground commitment there .
Still within congressional restraints , the Nixon administration attempted to bolster Cambodia &apos;s military government .
But , despite modest material support , the US could not sustain a government that could not sustain itself .
Rather than the dominos falling following America &apos;s retreat from Saigon in 1975 , a Vietnam @-@ Cambodian War ensued .
This in turn stimulated China &apos;s unsuccessful intervention in North Vietnam .
The withdrawal by all of these invading armies to the recognized international boundaries demonstrated that nationalist forces were dominant in the region , not communist solidarity .
None of these American exits was without consequence .
But , while the US suffered costs to its reputation around the world , the supposed advantages from this for America &apos;s opponents proved illusory .
America &apos;s departure from Mesopotamia will likewise put the burden of problem solving onto Iraqis and other regional players , leaving the US offshore to assist when and where it deems appropriate .
History suggests that , in fits and starts , Iraq , like Vietnam and Lebanon , will find itself able to sort out its own affairs .
A Wiser America
NEW YORK - When America absorbed the bombings at the Boston Marathon , what was striking was what did not happen .
Twelve years after the attacks of September 11 , 2001 , the country was saddened , but it was also better informed .
There was little of the rampant jingoism , get @-@ them @-@ at @-@ all @-@ costs bloodlust , constant speechifying , and flag @-@ waving that followed the 2001 attacks .
Perhaps most remarkable was the absence of reflexive Islamophobia and of the willingness to fight any war - even the wrong war in the wrong country for the wrong reasons - against the supposedly culpable &quot; other . &quot;
Instead , this time , Americans &quot; sadness was mingled with cynicism and suspicion .
The country is warier of being manipulated .
While Americans certainly mourn the dead and support the city of Boston , there has been a kind of penetration into the national consciousness that , after the 2001 attacks , America &apos;s leaders used the bogeyman of terrorism to encroach on individual rights , fund almost every conceivable domestic @-@ security boondoggle , and advance the self @-@ interested agendas of the defense and surveillance industries .
Even conservative , Fox News @-@ watching Americans have become aware , in a way that was not the case in the aftermath of the 2001 attacks , that America has created its own &quot; blowback . &quot;
The spin that worked so well back then - that the attacks occurred because &quot; they hate our freedoms &quot; - does not ring true anymore .
Americans know that a million refugees have fled Iraq ; the Oscar @-@ nominated documentary Five Broken Cameras and other media have shown how the United States contributes to the brutalization of Palestinians - a major driver of &quot; jihad , &quot; or what the US State Department calls &quot; extremism &quot; ; US soldiers have repeatedly been implicated in war crimes ; and Jeremy Scahill &apos;s book Dirty Wars , which details targeted assassinations by the US around the world , has hit bookstores .
In short , while no one condones violence against innocents like that suffered by the victims at the Boston Marathon , Americans are far more aware than they were 12 years ago of their own slaughter of innocents around the world .
Their self @-@ image is no longer that of the &quot; good guys , &quot; against whom an act of violence is mad and inexplicable .
Americans also are more aware of how such attacks are used to justify abuses of their own rights .
Immediately , the bombings began to be cited by some leaders as a call to limit constitutional rights .
Republican Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham have called for the surviving suspect , Dzokhar Tsarnaev , to be labeled an &quot; enemy combatant &quot; and shipped to Guantánamo Bay - an idea that many Americans find chilling .
Other responses appall many in the US as well .
The fact that Tsarnaev , despite his many requests , was not initially informed of his right to remain silent and be represented by an attorney - normally a required part of any US arrest - caused considerable anxiety .
The panicky public response that permitted the establishment of GITMO is no more .
Americans recognize that a violation of anyone &apos;s rights threatens the rights of all .
Notable , too , are the conspiracy theories this time around .
Most Americans probably do not actually believe that the bombing was a &quot; false flag &quot; event , perpetrated by others than the Tsarnaev brothers ; rather , the conspiracy theories seem to show how jaded Americans have become about their government &apos;s approach to &quot; terror . &quot;
After all , US leaders lied about so much in the aftermath of the 2001 attacks .
They lied about Saddam Hussein &apos;s weapons of mass destruction ; lied about why Iraq had to be attacked , and then about the course of the war there ; and the head of the federal Environmental Protection Agency at the time , Christie Whitman , even lied about the air quality in lower Manhattan after the attack , leading thousands of New York City children to suffer from severe respiratory problems .
Of course , reliance on fear and misdirection may still be part of official strategy .
With Dzokhar Tsarnaev in custody and his brother dead , the next round of stories reported on alleged &quot; sleeper cells &quot; and planned attacks that had been thwarted by America &apos;s security services .
The Boston Globe , for example , ran an article about the man - identified only by his first name , Danny - whom the brothers carjacked three days after the attack .
Danny claimed that the only word of the brothers &quot; conversation that he understood was &quot; Manhattan , &quot; and that the terrorists had asked him if his car could leave the state - say , to get to New York .
The Globe &apos;s one @-@ source report proved nothing - and was unverifiable by other reporters or citizens - but it suggested much , leading to a spate of equally unverifiable reports that New York had been targeted .
Other recent &quot; terror &quot; -related reporting has been as flimsy .
In Charles Savage &apos;s recent account of the Guantánamo &quot; uprising , &quot; The New York Times credulously reproduced the &quot; arsenal &quot; that GITMO officials showed reporters in a video still .
The &quot; weapons &quot; were allegedly made from mop handles and nail files - objects that , as I know from having reported from Guantánamo , are literally impossible for any detainee to obtain .
The prisoners are housed far from anything like mops or other cleaning articles ; they are given no chores to perform ; and they receive no mail .
In swallowing the official account without skepticism - Savage did not ask where any of these items may have come from - The New York Times has apparently learned nothing from its badly flawed reporting on Saddam &apos;s supposed WMD .
Fortunately , most Americans have learned from the past , and this was reflected in the public response this time around - sadness , yes , but also some wisdom .
Perhaps Americans have moved closer to understanding that they can and must fight terrorism in a civilized way , as free and thoughtful people .
Amnesty for Saddam ?
Senior US officials , including Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld , have recently suggested that Saddam Hussein and his top henchmen might be given an amnesty for their past crimes in exchange for leaving Iraq and averting war .
Is such an amnesty a good idea ?
How should it be judged by those attempting to end the practice of exempting from punishment government officials guilty of monstrous crimes ?
These are weighty questions .
In trying to answer them , two considerations seem fundamental .
First , one should consider the severity of the crimes committed by those who would escape punishment .
Second , we should consider how much death and suffering would be avoided by letting such a ruler and his henchmen go free .
A third factor that should also be taken into account is what damage would be done to the emerging international legal system for ending the impunity long enjoyed by state officials who use their power to commit atrocities .
As for the severity of Saddam Hussein &apos;s criminal behavior , there is probably no official now in power anywhere in the world with as much blood on his hands .
An incomplete list of his crimes includes :
using chemical weapons against Iranian troops during the eight @-@ year Iran @-@ Iraq war that he started in 1980 ;
murdering about 5,000 residents of the predominantly Kurdish town of Halabja in March 1988 through the use of chemical weapons , after using these weapons in previous months against Kurdish villages in the vicinity ;
murdering about 100,000 Kurds during the &quot; Anfal &quot; campaign between February and September 1988 , mainly by transporting the victims to a desert area where they were forced into trenches , machine @-@ gunned , and then covered with sand by bulldozers ;
destroying the ancient civilization of the Marsh Arabs in southeastern Iraq , followed by the forced resettlement and murder of the region &apos;s former residents ;
his actions in Kuwait when Iraq invaded in 1990 , including the disappearance--still unresolved--of hundreds of Kuwaiti citizens ;
savage reprisals against the Shiites in southern Iraq in the aftermath of the 1991 Gulf War ;
and persecution of any and all Iraqis suspected of dissent or disloyalty .
Each of these constitutes a war crime , a crime against humanity and , in the case of the Anfal campaign and its mass slaughter , and perhaps also in the case of the Marsh Arabs , the gravest crime of all , genocide .
Although we cannot know how many lives would be lost and how much misery would be inflicted in an invasion of Iraq to oust Saddam &apos;s regime , the cost would unquestionably be great .
No matter how compelling the case for punishing Saddam Hussein and such partners in crime as Ali Hassan al @-@ Majid ( &quot; Ali Chemical &quot; to the Kurds ) , Saddam &apos;s cousin and the principal organizer of the Anfal campaign , it is equaled by our duty to try to minimize harm to the living .
The apparent conflict between doing justice and preserving peace may be resolved through international law .
As matters currently stand , there is no mechanism for bringing Saddam Hussein to trial .
The International Criminal Court , which is now taking shape in The Hague with the selection of its first justices , does not have retroactive jurisdiction .
It cannot consider crimes committed prior to July 1 , 2002 .
So Saddam could be tried only before a new
If Saddam were granted sanctuary in a country such as Belarus or Libya , he would probably remain safe from prosecution , but only as long as he never leaves .
For example , Uganda &apos;s Idi Amin and Ethiopia &apos;s Haile Mariam Mengistu--deposed tyrants who rival Saddam in the scale of their criminality--have taken care not to stray from their shelters in Saudi Arabia and Zimbabwe , respectively .
If Saddam is ready to abdicate to preserve his life , he should get that much security , no more .
Without amnesty from a body such as the UN Security Council , the theoretical possibility that he could be prosecuted would be preserved .
He could not move freely .
His crimes would neither be forgiven nor forgotten .
Amnesty for Saddam Hussein is simply intolerable .
But condemning thousands to death in order to be able to punish him is intolerable as well .
Let him go where we can &apos;t get at him , but with no guarantee of impunity if his actions or fate bring him to a place where justice can be done .
An Accidental Cure for Iraq
Doctors use the word &quot; crisis &quot; to describe the point at which a patient either starts to recover or dies .
President George W. Bush &apos;s Iraqi patient now seems to have reached that point .
Most commentators appear to think that Bush &apos;s latest prescription - a surge of 20,000 additional troops to suppress the militias in Baghdad - will , at best , merely postpone the inevitable death of his dream of a democratic Iraq .
Yet as &quot; Battle of Baghdad &quot; begins , factors beyond Bush &apos;s control and not of his making ( at least not intentionally ) may just save Iraq from its doom .
One key factor is that , for the first time since the United States and Britain invaded Iraq , Arab Sunni leaders are backing a US military plan for that country .
These Sunni leaders live in abject fear of the geopolitical earthquake that any disintegration of political authority in Baghdad would bring , believing that all @-@ out civil war would invariably follow - a war that would not respect international borders .
Of course , America has been encouraging Sunni leaders in this belief .
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice &apos;s recent tour of Middle East capitals helped spread the word to Egypt , Jordan , Saudi Arabia , and the Gulf states that any US failure and sudden withdrawal would be certain to destabilize them .
Given the fragile grip that these leaders have over their societies , America &apos;s warnings have been taken to heart .
But the truly curious factor that might bring success to Bush is that those who have opposed or resented America &apos;s presence in Iraq , such as the Iranian @-@ backed Shi &apos;a parties now also appear to want Bush &apos;s new strategy to succeed .
They are for it because they believe it will defang Moqtada al @-@ Sadr , the rogue Shi &apos;a cleric whose power has mushroomed over the past three years - to the point that he now dominates much of Baghdad and holds the allegiance of countless angry young Shi &apos;a men .
Of course , attacking Moqtada al @-@ Sadr &apos;s Mahdi Army in the name of fighting militia death squads has the potential to draw American military forces into a level of urban warfare unseen since the Falluja assaults of 2004 and 2005 .
Al @-@ Sadr is seen as the protector of the Shi &apos;a of Iraq and has are an estimated 60,000 fighters in his militia .
But he is deeply mistrusted by other Shi &apos;a leaders , who fear that they may one day have to take him on by themselves .
Better to let the Americans do it , though of course these Shi &apos;a leaders prefer a slow strangulation of al @-@ Sadr to a direct and bloody assault .
But make no mistake : how al @-@ Sadr is handled is the big test of Bush &apos;s new strategy .
Should the US choose to face al @-@ Sadr and his forces head on , they risk alienating Iraq &apos;s largest sectarian community , the Shi &apos;a , adding fuel to the anti @-@ occupation resistance and thus probably dooming Bush to failure .
Iran and Syria , which have played a spoiler role in Iraq up to now , may also now be anxious to find a way to pull the country back from the brink .
Bush still refuses to talk to either of them , and has lately been having US troops arrest Iranian agents in Iraq .
Yet Iran may already see itself as victorious , with the current Iraqi government friendlier than any the Iranians have ever known .
So maintaining that government in office has now become a strategic priority for Iran , particularly as it is now clear that any US hopes of using Iraq as a permanent military base are dead .
The &quot; surge &quot; also opens , perhaps for the first time , a serious possibility of pouring water on the insurgent fires in Anbar province , the heartland of the Sunni insurgency .
The US has achieved relative successes in the province through alliances with Sunni tribes .
The hope is that such realistic and pragmatic accommodations will be extended to Iraqis who are fighting under the banner of a nationalist and anti @-@ occupation agenda .
So some of the stars have come into alignment for Bush .
But to keep them there in the long term , the Iraqi government will need to amend the constitution in a way that appeases the Sunni community .
Reassuring Iraq &apos;s Sunnis that they have a place in the new Iraq will also reassure neighboring Sunni governments , which have mostly turned a blind eye to the support for the insurgency that has come from their lands .
Of course , should the US see failure ahead , it could seek to broaden the war beyond Iraq &apos;s borders by attacking Iran , a policy reminiscent of &quot; Operation Sideshow , &quot; when US failure in Vietnam in the late 1960 &quot; s enticed President Nixon into attacking Cambodia and Laos .
But Iran has resources that Cambodia and Laos could never muster ; indeed , its ability to retaliate could set the entire region ablaze .
Whereas America &apos;s war in Indochina was a tragic mistake , the cost of a wider war precipitated by the crisis in Iraq would be incomparably greater - for both the patient and the doctor .
An Age of Diminished Expectations ?
CAMBRIDGE - As the United States and European economies continue to struggle , there is rising concern that they face a Japanese @-@ style &quot; lost decade . &quot;
Unfortunately , far too much discussion has centered on what governments can do to stimulate demand through budget deficits and monetary policy .
These are key issues in the short term , but , as every economist knows , long @-@ run economic growth is determined mainly by improving productivity .
There is no doubt that Japan &apos;s massive 1992 financial crisis was a hammer blow , from which it has yet to recover , and the parallels with the US and Europe today are worrisome .
Both seem set for a long period of slow credit growth , owing both to necessary stricter financial regulation and to the fact that their economies remain significantly over @-@ leveraged .
There are no simple shortcuts in the healing process .
Yet , in assessing the Japanese experience and its relevance today , it is important to recognize that Japan &apos;s fall to earth was due not only to its financial crisis .
Japan also suffered a number of severe productivity shocks , which had much to do with its longer @-@ term problems .
Even if Japan had never experienced a real @-@ estate and stock @-@ market bubble , the meteoric rise of its giant neighbor China would have been a huge challenge .
At the dawn of the 1990 &quot; s , Japan &apos;s dominance in export markets worldwide had already been dented somewhat by the rise of its smaller Asian neighbors , including Malaysia , Korea , Thailand , and Singapore .
But China presents an entirely different challenge , one for which adjustment will take much longer .
Moreover , even if it never had a financial crisis , Japan would have been plagued by adverse demographics , as its population is both aging and shrinking .
Last but not least , Japan &apos;s hyper @-@ growth years were built on a phenomenal rate of investment .
But , because productivity ultimately must be built on innovation , not just on ever more buildings and equipment , it was inevitable that returns on investment would turn south at some point .
In principle , with a healthier financial system , Japan &apos;s economy would have had more flexibility to meet these challenges to its productivity growth .
But , one way or another , Japan &apos;s once sky @-@ high growth rates probably would have fallen sharply .
As is usually the case , financial crisis amplified other causes of economic meltdown , rather than igniting it directly .
The US Great Depression of the 1930 &quot; s is another case in point .
Again , a great deal of attention has been lavished on the ebbs and flow of fiscal and monetary policy .
But New Deal economic policies , by expanding the role of the state in an often chaotic and unpredictable fashion , probably also played a role in at least temporarily impeding productivity growth .
The US today seems to be moving towards a gentler and more European @-@ style state , with higher taxes and possibly greater regulation .
Supporters of the US administration might fairly argue that it is undertaking long @-@ deferred maintenance on issues such as income inequality .
But if the US does experience slow growth over the next decade , can it all be blamed on the financial crisis ?
Likewise , Europe &apos;s latest existential identity crisis is again creating a great deal of policy uncertainty and unpredictability .
In Europe , too , if there are adverse growth effects over the next decade , they cannot all be blamed on the financial crisis .
In the short term , it is important that monetary policy in the US and Europe vigilantly fight Japanese @-@ style deflation , which would only exacerbate debt problems by lowering incomes relative to debts .
In fact , as I argued at the outset of the crisis , it would be far better to have two or three years of mildly elevated inflation , deflating debts across the board , especially if the political , legal , and regulatory systems remain somewhat paralyzed in achieving the necessary write @-@ downs .
With credit markets impaired , further quantitative easing may still be needed .
As for fiscal policy , it is already in high gear and needs gradual tightening over several years , lest already troubling government @-@ debt levels deteriorate even faster .
Those who believe - often with quasi @-@ religious conviction - that we need even more Keynesian fiscal stimulus , and should ignore government debt , seem to me to be panicking .
Last but not least , however , it is important to try to preserve dynamism in the US and European economies through productivity @-@ enhancing measures - for example , by being vigilant about anti @-@ trust policy , and by streamlining and simplifying tax systems .
For better or for worse , productivity trends are very difficult to extrapolate , depending as they do on hugely complex interactions of social , economic , and political forces .
Nobel Prize winners Robert Solow and Paul Krugman famously once questioned whether the proliferation of computers and technology would lead to bottom @-@ line growth .
( This theme underlies the title of Krugman &apos;s classic 1990 book &quot; The Age of Diminished Expectations . &quot; )
In the end , policymakers must remember that whether or not the US and Europe avoid a lost decade depends on their ability to retain productive vitality in their economies , not simply on short @-@ term demand @-@ stimulation measures .
An Agenda for Growth in Europe
A recent OECD study reminds us , once again , that per capita income levels are roughly 30 % lower in the euro area , as well as in the three largest Continental countries - France , Germany , and Italy - that dominate its performance , than in the United States .
That gap is likely to widen as Europe &apos;s demographic profile darkens , and if productivity continues to grow more slowly than elsewhere in the industrial economies .
Why have the large European economies failed to catch up with US income levels ?
The bulk of the shortfall is due to less intensive use of labor : employment rates for women and for the oldest and youngest age groups are lower in the euro area than in the US , working hours are far fewer , and , least significantly , unemployment rates are higher .
Some take consolation from this , viewing it as positive that Europeans prefer leisure to work .
But low levels of labor utilization are largely due to heavier income taxes and social security contributions , as well as high social benefit levels introduced at a time when the labor force was growing rapidly and the need to replace involuntary with voluntary unemployment seemed more urgent than today .
These measures will need to be revisited both to increase the supply of labor and to make public finances more sustainable .
This process is already underway , particularly in Italy and France , through cuts in social security contributions for lower @-@ paid workers , tighter conditions for drawing unemployment benefits , and tax credits for &quot; the working poor . &quot;
Since the mid @-@ 1990 &quot; s , the relative decline in employment in these countries has , indeed , been slightly reversed .
But factors beyond taxes and benefits also contribute to low employment rates in all the three major euro @-@ zone economies : high minimum wages and some features of employment protection legislation slow down the flow of workers through the job market .
Although a long agenda of reforms is beginning to be tackled , first in Germany and , more recently and cautiously , in France , the results are slow in coming and public understanding of the need for change remains limited .
Much can be learned from each country &apos;s experience and from that of smaller EU member states , but labor market reforms inevitably have a strong national flavor .
Employment objectives have been formulated for all EU member states since 1997 in the so @-@ called European Employment Strategy ( EES ) , now part of the &quot; Lisbon Agenda , &quot; the set of goals established to boost EU productivity .
But , with the policy instruments for achieving these goals largely national and the arguments for applying them simultaneously in several member states weak , the EES has created unrealistic public expectations and triggered only limited action by governments .
Nor is the employment gap with the US the only problem for Europe .
Beginning in the mid @-@ 1990 &quot; s , the rate of growth in output per hour worked - a key factor behind the rise in per capita income - slowed in most European countries while it rose in the US , reversing a decades @-@ long pattern .
Between 2000 and 2004 , hourly labor productivity rose more than twice as fast in the US than in the large euro zone economies - 2.8 % per year versus little more than 1 % .
So why have the Europeans been unable to sustain improvements in both foundations of growth - employment and productivity - at the same time ?
This proved possible not only in the US , but also in other advanced economies outside Europe - Australia , Canada , and New Zealand - and , unsurprisingly , in the new EU member states .
The explanation is not capital spending , which is normally linked to productivity growth .
There have been no major differences between the US and the large euro zone economies here .
This leaves the &quot; explanation &quot; to what economists call Total Factor Productivity ( TFP ) , a mix of several important elements , including innovation activity , a well @-@ functioning financial system ready and willing to take risks , and organizational flexibility that facilitates rapid diffusion of new technologies .
The main lapse in TFP growth in Europe over the past decade has been in services ( excluding information and communications technologies ) .
So deregulation and integration of services will be essential if the Euro area &apos;s TFP is to improve , as more than two @-@ thirds of total income in most EU economies is generated in this sector .
While product markets have held center stage in the creation of the single European market , services continue to be fragmented by national regulatory , anti @-@ competitive practices .
Much of the explanation lies in the very heterogeneity of services and the greater difficulties that mutual recognition , or the &quot; country @-@ of @-@ origin principle &quot; - essential in the integration of product markets - implies for services .
Unfortunately , reform was derailed in 2005 .
During the referendum campaign in France preceding the vote on the draft EU Constitutional Treaty , the proposed directive was vilified as undermining the rights of labor , symbolized by that dreaded bogeyman , the &quot; Polish plumber . &quot;
These attacks overlooked the fact that the directive makes employment conditions of workers from other EU @-@ member states subject in most respects to host @-@ country rules .
A revised version of the directive that reduces its sectoral scope and makes a number of compromises with the country @-@ of @-@ origin principle is now before the European Parliament .
Even this limited version would constitute progress ; most of the gains arise from removing the red tape that complicates cross @-@ border establishment of small and medium @-@ size service enterprises and limits competition in broad sectors of the economy .
It is a sad reflection on the state of the EU that it seems unable to agree on the one clear productivity @-@ advancing piece of legislation when improving productivity is held out as a shared goal .
The failure to mobilize consumer interests in favor of European integration is particularly disappointing for the new member states , which had expected to reap some of the benefits .
An Agenda for the Group of 7
An Alliance of Civilizations ?
MADRID - The first International Forum of the Alliance of Civilizations , conceived as an antidote to the idea that the world is doomed to a &quot; clash of civilizations , &quot; recently met in Madrid and revealed that there is more than a grain of truth in Robert Kagan &apos;s idea that Americans are from Mars and Europeans from Venus .
Ever since September 11 , 2001 , the United States has been engaged in a crusade against the forces of evil in the Muslim world .
By contrast , the March 11 , 2004 , terrorist attack on Spain , which left 200 dead , triggered an &quot; anti @-@ crusade &quot; that seeks to disarm extremism by building bridges of understanding and reconciliation with Islam .
Co @-@ sponsored by Spain and Turkey , the Alliance of Civilizations initiative is not devoid of political calculation .
To the Spaniards , it helps to justify their abrupt withdrawal from Iraq in 2004 ; for the Turks , it is yet another vehicle in their struggle , as the vital bridge between Islam and the West , for admission into the European Union .
A loose and somewhat confused project , the Alliance of Civilizations aims to heal the wounds of conflict between Islam and the West through education , viable integration policies , and a better @-@ informed dialogue with the media .
But it suffers from the major global players &quot; profound skepticism , with the US , Russia , and , for that matter , the EU shown no real enthusiasm for it .
However vague , the alliance of civilizations idea certainly cannot do more harm than war against Islamic extremism .
After all , none of the Muslim world &apos;s problems and conflicts with the West are susceptible to a military solution .
Moreover , the Alliance is not an entirely incoherent proposal if the objective is that the West disengage from the politics of hubris and establish a genuine sphere of cooperation with the Muslim world in economics , culture , and science .
Of course , the idea is held back by the inner workings of both parts of the proposed alliance .
Many in the West question whether Islam is compatible with human rights and Western concepts of liberty .
Many Muslims who have been fighting for years for their countries &quot; modernization have so far failed to find a lucid response to the progressive wave of radical Islam .
To claim that Islam is incompatible with human rights is to consider it a civilization too hidebound to change .
This is a historic fallacy .
Nor is the claim that Islam is intrinsically inimical to innovation viable , because Muslim civilization has contributed mightily to science and art throughout history .
Today , Western universities are replete with distinguished Arab scholars in almost every field - the result of a brain drain that itself reflects the Islamic world &apos;s centuries of decline .
In 2005 , the 17 countries of the Arab world together produced 13,444 scientific publications , fewer than the 15,455 achieved by Harvard University alone .
Enemies of reason , however , are also to be found in the West .
We live in an age in which many people are disillusioned with secular politics , and are turning to religion instead , not only throughout the Muslim world , but in the core of Western civilization , Christian Europe and Evangelist America .
Nor is the Jewish state of Israel , where Messianic fanatics and religious nationalists have embraced a political theology that questions the very legitimacy of the democratic institutions , immune from this phenomenon .
The current crisis of Islam might not be congenital , but Islam &apos;s predicament is acute .
The question is this : are Muslims ready to accept that Khomeini &apos;s dictum that &quot; Islam is politics or it is nothing &quot; is wrong , that Islam is a religion and not a form of government , and that , as in the Christian world , there is a sphere for Caesar and a sphere for God ?
Those in the Muslim world who want to embrace reform must be driven by the conviction that theocracy has never served as a vehicle for human progress .
Of course , the Alliance of Civilizations should not attempt to bridge differences by defending moral relativism .
If it is driven by a Western guilt complex that assumes that the solution simply lies in greater empathy for the Muslim predicament , then the skeptics are bound to be vindicated .
For the Alliance of Civilizations to have any chance of success , the emphasis must be on reciprocity .
Tolerance and religious freedom must be mutual .
Islam &apos;s part in the deal must include a guarantee of human rights and civil liberties , improvement in women &apos;s status , and realistic policies to stem the Islamic world &apos;s demographic explosion .
Some , as usual , will claim that the Arab @-@ Israeli conflict lies at the root of the problems that exist between Islam and the West , and that resolving the Palestinians &quot; plight will contribute immensely to smoother relations .
But Arabs and Muslims must stop deluding themselves that the Israel @-@ Palestine dispute is what is holding them back .
Ending the American occupation in Iraq and imposing an Arab @-@ Israeli peace would help , but they are no panacea .
The fight to eradicate misery , illiteracy , and corruption , and Islam &apos;s embrace of science , do not depend on the results of the Middle East peace process .
An Alliance of Equals
PARIS - During NATO &apos;s recent 60th anniversary ceremony in Strasbourg , the Alliance welcomed two new members , Albania and Croatia , bringing its total membership to 28 .
This expansion is a good thing , for history has tormented these two countries .
Being welcomed within the great international family of the West will reassure them , stabilize them , and contribute to their political , cultural , and economic development .
But the good news was limited , because NATO addressed only a routine agenda .
No core problem was really tackled .
The controversy that arose in France over the country &apos;s return to NATO &apos;s unified military command makes this abundantly clear .
Was France losing its autonomy , perhaps even its sovereignty ?
Was it capitulating to American hegemony ?
These are real questions , yet at the NATO summit people spoke of them more in terms of symbols than as realities .
But what is the reality here ?
NATO is a military alliance composed of 28 countries .
One of them , the United States , has a military budget that is more than three times that of all the other members combined .
Hence , the US runs most NATO civilian and military commands with the consent of the others .
Of course , there is a collective consultation and deliberative process that enables any member to be heard .
But in reality a member &apos;s actual power is what affects common decisions .
This structure harks back to the conditions of NATO &apos;s birth , when it was forged to thwart the Soviet threat to Western civilization .
At the time , no one ever doubted that American power - already endowed with nuclear weapons - was the only counterpart .
For this reason , the US came to preside over the alliance .
During the 41 years of the Cold War , 14 of NATO &apos;s 16 members strictly obeyed and complied with American decisions and policies .
French President Charles de Gaulle was the only one to question whether an American president would actually ever be ready to launch a nuclear attack on the USSR in order to protect one or several Alliance members if vital US interests were not directly at stake .
Based on that doubt , France - a nuclear power since 1960 - withdrew in 1966 from the Alliance &apos;s permanent centralized military command in order to assert its own deterrent capability .
This decision was mainly grounded on the American doctrine , adopted in 1962 , of &quot; flexible response , &quot; which said to the Soviets : &quot; As long as you do not use nuclear weapons , we will not use them , either . &quot; This very doctrine left Europe exposed .
Indeed , while it is a much disputed question , de Gaulle was probably right about America &apos;s lack of commitment to the nuclear defense of Europe .
Both Henry Kissinger and Robert McNamara left office admitting that de Gaulle had been correct .
Nevertheless , de Gaulle &apos;s insights left a legacy that still causes some mistrust and dissent within NATO .
France was right on this key strategic point , but it was never able to explain its position to its allies .
This inability to discuss , clearly and forthrightly , this strategic doctrine continues to hamper the Alliance .
At the Strasbourg summit , confidence in the future could have been strengthened if a couple of troubling issues had been discussed .
Instead , once again , there was an extended focus on the past .
The key questions are whether NATO &apos;s doctrine of common defense is currently directed at one country in particular , and whether nuclear force remains the Alliance &apos;s major defensive tool .
In the current global situation , no predictable conflict will require the use of a nuclear weapon .
At the moment , there is no global threat and the Alliance only intervenes in regional conflicts , so why not have NATO admit this ?
But the most important matter that went unmentioned in Strasbourg is the relationship with Russia .
NATO was founded to confront the threat that the USSR represented 60 years ago .
But the Warsaw Pact , the Soviet Union &apos;s &quot; anti @-@ NATO &quot; alliance of socialist countries , was dissolved in 1991 ; communism imploded the same year , with Russia caught ever since in a struggle to build a market economy and define a new global position for itself .
At a time when Russia was taking a more pacific course , NATO - unlike the Warsaw Pact - was not dismantled .
On the contrary , the Allies chose to maintain the pact and to extend it to numerous Russian neighbors .
NATO &apos;s members essentially said : &quot; We Western nations do not trust you .
Even if you become a democracy , we will always be suspicious . &quot;
George Kennan , one of the greatest American diplomats of the post @-@ war years , once wrote that the Western world was committing its biggest mistake in 50 years time by expanding NATO after Soviet communism collapsed .
The resulting humiliation and blatant mistrust that Russia &apos;s elite has felt ever since has led them to their current policy of rearmament .
The only way to resolve this problem is for NATO to assert its pacific intentions before the world .
The most convincing way to do that is to moderate America &apos;s excessive taste for power , which it demonstrated in Iraq .
NATO needs to shift its focus from organizing and administering a unified military command to building real confidence that every member &apos;s voice will be heard .
To that end , all members must stand on an equal footing .
France &apos;s decision to return to full and equal Alliance membership was a good one , and France must now work from within to advance the principles in which it believes .
Avoiding a New American Recession
CAMBRIDGE - The United States may be headed for a recession in 2013 .
Even if the country avoids going over the &quot; fiscal cliff , &quot; a poorly designed political compromise that cuts the deficit too quickly could push an already weak economy into recession .
But a gradual phase @-@ in of an overall cap on tax deductions and exclusions ( so @-@ called tax expenditures ) , combined with reform of entitlement spending , could achieve the long @-@ run fiscal consolidation that America needs without risking a new recession .
The US economy has been limping along with a growth rate of less than 2 % during the past year , with similarly dim prospects in 2013 , even without the shock of the fiscal cliff . &amp; # 160 ; That is much too weak a pace of expansion to tolerate the fiscal cliff &apos;s increase in tax rates and spending cuts , which would reduce demand by a total of $ 600 billion - about 4 % of GDP - next year , and by larger sums in subsequent years .
President Barack Obama &apos;s proposed alternative to the fiscal cliff would substantially increase tax rates and limit tax deductions for the top 2 % of earners , who now pay more than 45 % of total federal personal @-@ income taxes .
His budget would also increase taxes on corporations , and would end the current payroll @-@ tax &quot; holiday , &quot; imposing an additional 2 % tax on all wage earners .
Together , these changes could lower total demand by nearly 2 % of GDP .
And the higher marginal tax rates would reduce incentives to work and to invest , further impeding economic activity .
All of that could be fateful for an economy that is still struggling to sustain a growth rate of less than 2 % .
The Congressional Budget Office and the Federal Reserve predict that going over the fiscal cliff would cause a recession in 2013 , with Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke recently saying that the Fed would be unable to offset the adverse effect on the economy .
He could have said the same thing about the fiscal drag that would be created by Obama &apos;s budget proposal .
Although Congressional Republicans rightly object to raising tax rates , they appear willing to raise revenue through tax reform if that is part of a deal that also includes reductions in the long @-@ run cost of the major entitlement programs , Medicare and Social Security .
Although some Republicans would like to see revenue increased only by stimulating faster economic growth , that cannot be achieved without the reductions in marginal tax rates and improvements in corporate taxation that the Democrats are unlikely to accept .
Raising revenue through tax reform will have to mean reducing the special deductions and exclusions that now lower tax receipts .
The potential recession risk of a budget deal can be avoided by phasing in the base @-@ broadening that is used to raise revenue .
A desirable way to broaden the tax base would be to put an overall cap on the amount of tax reduction that each taxpayer can achieve through deductions and exclusions .
Such an overall cap would allow each taxpayer to retain all of his existing deductions and exclusions but would limit the amount by which he could reduce his tax liability in this way .
An overall cap would also cause many individuals who now itemize deductions to shift to the standard deduction - implying significant simplification in record @-@ keeping and thus an improvement in incentives .
A cap on the tax reductions derived from tax expenditures that is equal to 2 % of each individual &apos;s adjusted gross income would raise more than $ 200 billion in 2013 if applied to all of the current deductions and to the exclusions for municipal @-@ bond interest and employer @-@ paid health insurance .
Even if the full deduction for charitable gifts is preserved and only high @-@ value health insurance is regarded as a tax expenditure , the extra revenue in 2013 would be about $ 150 billion .
Over a decade , that implies nearly $ 2 trillion in additional revenue without any increase in tax rates from today &apos;s levels .
Extra revenue of $ 150 billion in 2013 would be 1 % of GDP , and could be too much for the economy to swallow , particularly if combined with reductions in government spending and a rise in the payroll tax .
But the same basic framework could be used by starting with a higher cap and gradually reducing it over several years .
A 5 % cap on the tax @-@ expenditure benefits would raise only $ 75 billion in 2013 , about 0.5 % of GDP ; but the cap could be reduced from 5 % to 2 % over the next few years , raising substantially more revenue when the economy is stronger .
Slowing the growth of government spending for Medicare and Social Security is necessary to prevent a long @-@ term explosion of the national debt or dramatic increases in personal tax rates .
Those changes should also be phased in gradually to protect beneficiaries and avoid an economic downturn .
America &apos;s national debt has more than doubled in the past five years , and is set to rise to more than 100 % of GDP over the next decade unless changes in spending and taxes are implemented .
A well @-@ designed combination of caps to limit tax expenditures and a gradual slowing of growth in outlays for entitlement programs could reverse the rise in the debt and strengthen the US economy .
America &apos;s current budget negotiations should focus on achieving a credible long @-@ term decline in the national debt , while protecting economic expansion in the near term .
An Alternative to Deposit Insurance
Argentina &apos;s financial panic and the run on its banks that ensued , as well as Asia &apos;s financial crisis of 1997 , have forced a number of countries to consider adopting deposit insurance schemes to protect their citizens &apos; savings .
But is deposit insurance the best defense against bank panics ?
Deposit insurance was a response to banking crises of the type that plagued the United States until the 1930 &apos;s .
The first explicit scheme was introduced in America after the Great Depression and initially seemed an unmitigated success .
Panics no longer occurred , which stabilized the financial system and contributed to sustained post @-@ war economic growth .
Deposit insurance did away with financial panics because bank runs are typically driven by a self @-@ fulfilling prophecy . They occur when a bank &apos;s clients fear that most of their fellow depositors will withdraw their funds .
Because banks service their depositors on a first @-@ come @-@ first @-@ served basis , those who wait risk being left empty @-@ handed , because the bank may be forced to liquidate its long term @-@ assets at a loss and run out of resources .
So fear of a panic can create a panic .
This is highly inefficient , because while it is individually rational for depositors to want their money immediately , the bank might have been able to service all of them had they been collectively patient .
Economists call such situations &quot; coordination failures , &quot; if depositors could talk to each other and coordinate their actions , they would be able to avoid a self @-@ defeating run on the bank .
By guaranteeing that there will be enough resources available for patient clients when they want to withdraw their funds , deposit insurance eliminates the coordination failure .
Patient depositors no longer need to worry about others withdrawing their funds because it has no effect on them .
But deposit insurance leads to other problems , which first appeared with the Savings and Loan crisis in the US during the 1980 &apos;s .
Deposit insurance creates what economists call &quot; moral hazard , &quot; people who are insured against an unpleasant event are not as careful as they would otherwise be in trying to avoid that event .
If my bicycle is insured against theft , I might buy a cheaper lock for it , making it more likely that it will be stolen .
With deposit insurance , clients who no longer risk losing their money have no incentive to monitor their bank , while banks , with no one watching , have incentives to invest in excessively risky projects .
Although many factors contributed to the Savings and Loan crisis , it is generally agreed that moral hazard was a major one .
Following that crisis , deposit insurance in the US was reformed with the objective of mitigating the moral hazard problem .
But did the reforms go far enough ?
There are ways to improve the existing system , but is something altogether different and better possible ?
As far back as 1873 , in his classic book on central banking ,
In case of panic , a good policy should help banks that have enough assets to cover their deposits but that can &apos;t pay all depositors at the same time because some assets are tied up in real estate or other long @-@ term investments .
These banks are
As with deposit insurance , repurchase agreements solve the coordination failure problem because depositors know that , even if they wait , the bank will be able to accommodate their withdrawals .
In contrast to deposit insurance , however , liquidity provision can avoid moral hazard by helping
Consider a bank that has invested in risky projects and finds itself in trouble .
It can ask the central bank for help and sell some of its assets for cash .
However , under the agreement with the central bank , it must buy its assets back .
If the assets are worthless , it will ultimately be forced out of business .
If it declares bankruptcy and refuses to buy back its assets , bankruptcy laws should give the central bank the first claim on the bank &apos;s assets .
This creates a powerful incentive for depositors and investors to monitor their bank &apos;s performance .
Implementing liquidity provision policies like those advocated by Bagehot would prevent bank panics without the incentive for undue risk @-@ taking associated with deposit insurance .
Depositors deserve strong , effective protection for their funds--and the banking system requires it in order to maintain confidence .
But neither depositors nor their banks should be given a free ride .
An Arab &quot; Third Way &quot;
AMMAN - Throughout the post @-@ colonial period , Arab countries have consistently failed to produce an efficient - let alone democratic - system of government .
Now , after a half @-@ century of competition between military or royal dictatorships and militant Islamist regimes , many Arabs are again seeking a &quot; third way &quot; - a path toward a credible form of representative democracy .
But will their efforts prove as futile now as they have in the past ?
The Middle East - named for its geographic position between Europe and East Asia - was under Ottoman rule for 400 years before the Allied powers , after defeating the Ottomans in World War I , partitioned the region into distinct political units that , under the Sykes @-@ Picot Agreement , fell within spheres of influence carved out by the United Kingdom and France .
But , in response to these new divisions , an Arab awakening - shaped by pan @-@ Arabism and support for Palestine - was occurring .
Charismatic young military rulers @-@ turned @-@ dictators like Egypt &apos;s Gamal Abdel Nasser , Iraq &apos;s Saddam Hussein , Libya &apos;s Muammar el @-@ Qaddafi , Yemen &apos;s Ali Abdullah Saleh , and Syria &apos;s Hafez al @-@ Assad used these popular causes to win public support .
But their failure to deliver better lives to their citizens , together with the discrediting of left @-@ wing ideologies following the Soviet Union &apos;s collapse , fueled the rise of a rival movement : political Islam .
The Muslim Brotherhood - established in the Egyptian town of Ismailia in 1928 and political Islam &apos;s oldest , best organized , and most widespread proponent - was ( and is ) despised by both secular Arabs and Arab monarchies .
Indeed , secular dictators have worked to suppress the Brothers at every turn - often violently , as when Assad ruthlessly crushed a Brotherhood @-@ led uprising in Hama in 1982 .
Forced to operate clandestinely , the Brotherhood built its support base with a social agenda that targeted the needs of the poor , while consistently reinforcing its Islamic ties , even using the compulsory zakat ( annual financial contribution to religious causes ) to build up its social network .
The Brothers , with the help of a conservative society and the mosques , were prepared to seize power whenever the opportunity arose .
Another Islamist movement , Algeria &apos;s Islamic Salvation Front , almost had such an opportunity in 1991 , when it won the first round of a general election .
But the military prevented its victory by canceling the second round , triggering a brutal eight @-@ year civil war in which an estimated 200,000 people died .
Palestine &apos;s Hamas , an offshoot of the Brotherhood , succeeded at the ballot box in 2006 , but has since failed to deliver credible governance .
Then the Arab Spring erupted in 2011 , creating new opportunities for political renewal .
Within months , Islamist parties shaped by the Brotherhood &apos;s ideology had replaced secular dictators in Tunisia and Egypt , and seemed poised to take over Yemen and Syria , largely because they were the only well @-@ organized political movements on the scene .
Moreover , the Muslim Brotherhood gained control of Egypt , the largest and most influential of the Arab Spring countries .
But their exclusive , rigid ideology was poorly suited to governing such a large and diverse country .
As a result , after only a year in power , the military - backed by the same secular , liberal young people who had opposed it in 2011 - drove President Mohamed Morsi out of power .
Unable to mount a political alternative , however , the protesters &quot; rejection of the Islamist government served only to put the army back in charge .
Some argue that the absence of a secular liberal option in Arab politics stems from fear of political Islam .
For decades , Western powers backed military regimes in the Arab world , willingly ignoring their systematic repression of democratic movements and rights , in order to ensure that Islamists did not gain power .
Now that both the military- and Islamist @-@ led systems have been discredited , an ideological vacuum has appeared in Arab politics .
But Arabs today - most of whom are under the age of 30 - are less interested in an overarching political ideology than they are in an efficient representative government that implements sound policies aimed at creating jobs and bolstering economic growth .
In short , they want a government that is focused on improving citizens &quot; lives .
In fact , the absence of a specific ideology was essential to the Arab Spring &apos;s initial success in Egypt and Tunisia , for it allowed a large number of young activists to forge loose alliances .
But mass movements can take a country only so far ; establishing a credible representative government requires political parties organized around clearly defined principles .
While the Muslim Brotherhood has such an organizing principle , its internal rigidity - at least with Morsi at its helm - made it unfit to govern .
Meanwhile , infighting among Egypt &apos;s liberals prevented them from establishing a disciplined , reliable alternative to the Brotherhood based on principles like diversity , plurality , respect for women , and freedom of expression .
So when the Islamist government &apos;s credibility collapsed , the military was Egypt &apos;s only remaining option .
In order to make progress , the youth @-@ led movements that drove the Arab Spring must translate their shared principles into effective political structures , and choose leaders who are capable of placing the search for consensus ahead of personal ambition .
If they succeed , the Arab world may finally have an alternative to rule by generals or mullahs .
Even if they fail to gain power , the emergence of such an alternative would surely influence the Arab world &apos;s agenda for years to come .
An Antitrust Counter @-@ Revolution ?
BARCELONA - The current global financial crisis has made evident the tremendous pressures to which competition policy is subject on both sides of the Atlantic .
In particular , competition policy has suffered a setback mostly because of the distortional aid measures to financial intermediaries , as well as a suspension of merger rules to save institutions .
Indeed , public provision of capital and other subsidies have made the playing field uneven , with weaker institutions ending up much better capitalized than healthier ones .
This is crucial in a sector like banking , where perceptions about the soundness of an institution are fundamental to its ability to compete .
For example , Lloyds TSB took over the troubled HBOS , Britain &apos;s largest mortgage lender , in a merger opposed by the country &apos;s Office of Fair Trading , whereas it was barred from taking over Abbey National bank in 2001 .
In the United States , the investment banking business has been consolidated with the forced takeovers of Bear Stearns by JP Morgan and of Merrill Lynch by Bank of America .
The result is very weak competition among the players left .
Competition policy was attuned to deal with individual crises , but a systemic crisis has almost broken its back .
Not only in banking , but in other sectors as well - with automakers at the forefront - massive subsidies are keeping inefficient incumbents in place , limiting the growth of efficient firms or , perhaps even worse , preventing market entry by new firms .
In the European Union , national governments maneuver in a subsidy race to shift the costs of capacity adjustment in the car industry to neighbors , as the case of Opel shows .
But consolidation to reduce perceived excess capacity in banking and the automotive sector may create long @-@ term anti @-@ competitive market structures .
As long as those structures manage to keep new entrants out , market discipline will be suppressed and the consumer will suffer .
It is precisely the size and power of large financial , automotive , and other firms that have conditioned the scope of regulation and public intervention .
Indeed , the influence of the US investment @-@ banking industry &apos;s lobbying efforts on the relaxation of prudential standards in financial regulation is widely recognized as a factor leading to the current crisis .
And many would argue that the industry has had a substantial impact on the measures to resolve the crisis itself .
The clout of the &quot; big three &quot; automakers in the US is also evident , despite their relatively poor record in terms of efficiency and delivering value to consumers .
Indeed , it is remarkable that , with General Motors seemingly unresponsive to consumer demand , there is now a debate about whether it should be forced to produce more fuel @-@ efficient cars .
If large firms can shape the playing field in their favor through their influence on the political process and regulation - thereby keeping out new entrants in their industries and shifting costs to society - a whole new perspective on competition policy follows .
Or perhaps it is not so new after all .
Antitrust policy started in the US at the end of the nineteenth century with a deep suspicion about large firms , owing to the concentration of power that largeness entails .
This somewhat populist view later gave way to a view of antitrust that focused on efficiency .
What it sought to address was market power in a particular sector , not size
But the current crisis might pose the question of whether the populist view of antitrust - limiting the size of firms because of the excessive influence they may wield - has some merit .
The issue is not only that firms that become systemically vital may blackmail society , but also that very large firms can tilt the playing field to further their interests at society &apos;s expense .
The saying that what is good for GM is good for the US , if it was ever valid , seems hardly tenable today .
It is , however , one thing to recognize the problem , and another to think about measures to address it .
Firms can be made to internalize the costs they impose on society with appropriate regulation ( for example , capital requirements with a systemic charge for financial institutions ) , but it is not so obvious what to do with &quot; excessive &quot; influence that comes with size .
To limit the size of firms to check the concentration of power is a very blunt instrument - one that highlights the failure of other controls in the democratic process aimed at ensuring that strong lobbies do not end up imposing regulation that is not aligned with social welfare .
But if effective checks and balances are not put in place , nineteenth @-@ century antitrust may be back in fashion sooner rather than later .
An Arab Spring ?
PARIS - Is Tunisia the first Arab authoritarian domino to fall ?
Or is it a unique case that should not be viewed as a precedent for either the Arab world in general or the Maghreb in particular ?
The region &apos;s dictators have sought to dismiss the &quot; Jasmine Revolution , &quot; but the spark that started in Tunisia could spread - perhaps in a matter of months or years - to the entire Arab world .
Indeed , the wall of fear has crumbled , the people have spoken , and an &quot; Arab spring &quot; could be at hand .
The message from Tunisia , at least so far , is clear : corrupt and authoritarian regimes , beware : unless you reform deeply and quickly , your days are numbered .
The greatest danger is that the Jasmine Revolution could go the way of Romania &apos;s anti @-@ communist uprising of 20 years ago , with the old regime &apos;s underlings expelling their bosses in order to stay in power .
But the best analogy for Tunisia today is Spain in the years preceding and following the death of Francisco Franco .
By opening itself to the world through tourism , and with its emphasis on education and women &apos;s rights , Ben Ali &apos;s regime created something unique in the Middle East : a vibrant middle class .
But the regime , like Franco &apos;s dictatorship , did not treat the members of this new middle class like adults , thereby encouraging widespread frustration .
Given this , it would seem wrong , if not dangerous , to compare Tunisia and its Jasmine Revolution to other national contexts in the region .
Nevertheless , if Morocco looks stable today , this largely reflects two factors : monarchy and reform .
Led by a group of technocrats surrounding the young King Mohammed VI , a reform process - including political liberalization - has begun in earnest , even if the results still seem modest .
Moreover , Mohammed VI , as &quot; Commander of the Believers , &quot; benefits from a &quot; Muslim &quot; legitimacy that the leaders of Algeria and Egypt , two of the region &apos;s most vulnerable regimes , do not possess .
And Morocco , contrary to Algeria , does not suffer from the curse of oil .
Even if the case of Tunisia is largely unique , it would be shortsighted to dismiss its potential influence elsewhere in the region , where many young Arabs in this age of Facebook and Twitter now &quot; feel Tunisian . &quot;
They , too , are humiliated by their leaders &quot; performance and , more deeply , their vulgar despotic essence .
They , too , thirst for freedom .
Whatever the Jasmine Revolution &apos;s outcome , and even if it cannot become for the Arab world what the fall of the Berlin Wall was for Europe , it will establish a &quot; before &quot; and an &quot; after . &quot;
The &quot; after &quot; is likely to highlight two potential models of political development for the Arab world : Turkey and Iran .
If the revolutionary wave that began in Tunisia spreads to the rest of the Arab world , how many countries will be tempted by Turkish openness , and how many by Iranian fundamentalism ?
Of course , that is a somewhat simplistic dichotomy .
There are grey areas in the Turkish experiment with &quot; moderate Islam , &quot; and , beyond Iran &apos;s Mullahs , there are reasons for hope in the vibrant and resilient character of that country &apos;s civil society .
What is clear is the West &apos;s preference for the Turkish model .
Most Europeans may want to keep Turkey at a reasonable distance , but , confronted with changes and possible disorder , if not chaos , in the Arab world , they look favorably on Turkey &apos;s potential to play a stabilizing role .
To be sure , history never repeats itself , but could some kind of neo @-@ Ottoman order be the best answer to the risk of &quot; Arab chaos &quot; ?
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan &apos;s Turkey already plays a growing role in the region , and has strengthened its image with ordinary Arabs by taking a muscular diplomatic position against Israel &apos;s deadly military assault in June 2010 on a Gaza @-@ bound aid flotilla that had been organized by a Turkish charity .
But it is one thing to be popular and another to serve as a model .
Turkey is demonstrating that Islam and modernity are compatible .
But the Turks are the Ottoman Empire &apos;s heirs , and the Arab world , contrary to Western hopes , may not be ready to exchange its current frustration for the humiliating admission that it requires its former rulers &quot; model to progress toward modernity .
It would be dangerous to assume that after Tunisia , democracy in the Arab world is just around the corner .
But the belief that nothing will change is equally illusory .
For better or worse , history is on the move in the Arab world - and there is very little the West can do about it .
An Asia Strategy for Iran
SINGAPORE − When the ongoing turmoil surrounding the Iranian elections finally ends , the West is likely to walk away with a simple black and white judgment : the bad guys won .
Of course , the West did the right thing by supporting the good guys , the street demonstrators .
Hence , the West need not bear any responsibility for the outcome .
The tragedy of such thinking is that it does not allow for any moral and political complexity or nuance , yet that is exactly what will be needed if the many problems surrounding Iran are to be resolved .
Moreover , with Mahmoud Ahmadinejad remaining as Iran &apos;s president , the West will once again resort to its usual method of dealing with unfriendly regimes : impose more sanctions .
But this would lead to an even greater tragedy .
The only clear lesson to emerge from Iran &apos;s disputed presidential election is that the country has a vibrant and indeed dynamic civil society .
Many brave Iranians were prepared to risk their lives to defend their beliefs .
Their ability to do so confirms that Iran is not a closed totalitarian state like North Korea .
Despite many years of rule by a theocratic establishment ( or perhaps because of it ) , Iranian minds remain open and engaged .
So there is real hope that Iran can change , modernize , and open up as the rest of Asia has .
Indeed , the only viable long @-@ term strategy to adopt , therefore , is to stop trying to isolate Iran and instead nudge Iranians into engaging more with modern Asia .
In the Iranian worldview , there are three great ancient Asian civilizations : Chinese , Indian , and Persian ( with Persia being the greatest ) .
Iranians expect to perform on par with China and India .
So , while Western hectoring of Iran will not work , when Iranians see their society falling far behind China and India as those countries open up to the world , they may become motivated to reconsider their path .
The more Iranians visit China and India , the more likely that Iran will change .
Similarly , the West should find ways to re @-@ engage with Iranian society , a major obstacle to which is the absence of diplomatic relations between the United States and Iran .
American foreign policy assumes that diplomatic relations with Iran are somehow an act of approval .
In fact , the exact opposite is true .
Diplomacy was invented precisely in order to enable relations between adversaries , not friends .
No one needs diplomatic immunity to talk to their friends .
They need it to talk to their adversaries .
Unfortunately , no US politician appears willing to explain this bit of common sense to the American public .
The US might also learn from other examples .
Many Americans applauded Egyptian President Anwar el - Sadat for his political courage in visiting Jerusalem three decades ago - a decision for which he ultimately paid with his life − even though the vast majority of Egyptians strongly disapproved .
It is useful to recall President Richard Nixon &apos;s words when , prior to restoring diplomatic relations China , he visited Beijing : &quot; We have at times in the past been enemies .
We have great differences today .
What brings us together is that we have common interests which transcend those differences .
As we discuss our differences , neither of us will compromise our principles .
But while we cannot close the gulf between us , we can try to bridge it so that we may be able to talk across it . &quot;
In engaging Iran , the West should ignore the nature of its regime .
It is almost impossible for any outsider to understand Iran &apos;s real internal political dynamics .
Just when the world reached a consensus that Ahmadinejad was merely an instrument of the Supreme Leader , Ayatollah Khamenei , Ahmadinejad appointed a Vice @-@ President against Khamenei &apos;s wishes ( though he later retracted the appointment ) .
What we do know with certainty is that the regime is divided .
These divisions will allow new forces to emerge in Iranian society .
So all means should be found to reach out to Iranian society at all levels .
Iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study in Asian universities , where they would discover how confident young Chinese and Indian students are about the future − which might well cause them to reflect on why young Iranians do not share that optimism .
A final reason for the West to change course is that Western sanctions are proving increasingly useless .
Only 12 % of the world &apos;s population lives in the West , and power is slipping steadily away from it .
The July 2009 decision by the Non @-@ Aligned Movement ( comprising 118 member states ) to hold its next meeting in Tehran provides a powerful demonstration of non @-@ Western perceptions about Iran .
If the West persists with its sanctions , it will not do any good . It will only make Western leaders feel good .
But what is ultimately more important : doing good or feeling good ?
An Assassination in Belgrade
Not since Archduke Franz Ferdinand &apos;s assassination has a murder shaken Belgrade as much as the killing of Serbian Premier Zoran Djindjic .
The bullets that killed Djindjic may also have slain Serbian hopes for normalcy at the very moment that we were emerging from the nightmare of Slobodan Milosevic &apos;s long misrule .
With the bloody wars of the Yugoslav succession still etched deeply in everyone &apos;s minds , does Djindjic &apos;s assassination herald the end of an era of political violence or the dawn of a new one ?
Milosevic &apos;s ouster two years ago was turbulent , but no one was killed .
Serbs were justly proud : a dictatorship was ended in a democratic , peaceful way .
Milosevic &apos;s extradition to face charges of war crimes before the Hague Tribunal--a trial that has proceeded without incident in Serbia--was also peaceful .
With relations in the region and with the West approaching something like normalcy , Serbs were beginning to feel , at long last , that they were finding peace with themselves and the world .
Of course , assassinations are nothing new in Serbia . &quot; Arkan , &quot; the leader of the most murderous paramilitary group in the wars in Bosnia and Kosovo , and a political power even after Milosevic &apos;s fall , was murdered in Belgrade last year .
Djindjic himself narrowly escaped a highway assassination attempt only last month .
But most Serbs were beginning to believe that the ballot and not the gun was becoming the dominant tool of politics .
Djindjic &apos;s effective leadership brought about this change .
Although the most popular politician of the uprising against Milosevic was Vojislav Kostunica , who replaced him as president , it was Djindjic who skillfully coordinated the volatile coalition that opposed the regime .
His boundless energy and quick thinking delivered success from behind the scenes .
As Serbia &apos;s prime minister after Milosevic , he resembled a corporate CEO more than the Heidelberg @-@ educated philosophy professor that he was .
Djindjic remained pragmatic , never doctrinaire .
As a result of Serbia &apos;s predicament , he accumulated more power than prime ministers typically wield .
Milosevic &apos;s regime left behind crippled institutions , with large sections of the police and judiciary and many state @-@ owned companies remaining under the control of Milosevic &apos;s clique .
With little trust in existing institutions to implement reforms , Djindjic often took shortcuts , using extra @-@ legal means and improvised parliamentary majorities to push through legislation .
Only prosperity and a &quot; European Serbia &quot; mattered .
Did these short cuts help incite his death ?
Who can say ?
They certainly did little to build respect for the rule of law .
Yet the immediate consequences of Djindjic &apos;s death will be tragic .
He was seen in the West as a reformer , and reform may not proceed without him .
If it does not , urgently needed Western investment won &apos;t materialize .
Serbia will again seem a benighted and lawless land .
Although Djindjic was not popular , only extreme nationalists and die @-@ hard Milosevic supporters are cheering .
They regard his murder as just punishment for the &quot; traitor &quot; Djindjic &apos;s decision to extradite Milosevic--and other Serbian &quot; heroes &quot; --to The Hague .
The more dangerous outcome is that the assassination may reinforce the belief in Serbia that only authoritarian rule is possible .
Given the prevalence of this belief , Djindjic &apos;s death creates a serious power vacuum precisely because his vast personal power was moving Serbia in some of the right directions .
Now , it is feared , organized crime will intimidate his less talented successors .
For now , Serbia &apos;s government has imposed a state of emergency .
But effective or quick suppression of the organized criminals who were almost certainly behind Djindjic &apos;s murder is unlikely .
The reason for this also explains why Djindjic could not rely on the Serb state to carry out his policies .
Many policemen and intelligence officers are on the crime bosses &apos; payrolls .
The fact that a former president of Serbia , Ivan Stambolic , could disappear without a trace in 1999 is grim testimony to the power of Serbia &apos;s criminal underworld .
Indeed , Djindjic may well be a victim of his recent moves to root out organized crime .
He was initially slow in fighting organized crime , because he did not want to alienate the bulk of Milosevic &apos;s mafia @-@ infested establishment at once .
He preferred to confront corrupt institutions one at a time as he consolidated his rule .
Sadly , he may also have needed the support of some crime bosses at the outset .
Djindjic &apos;s murder will make the fight against crime the country &apos;s main political goal .
In this , politicians will at last have something like united public support .
But crime would not be as powerful as it is , and the police and judiciary would not be as corrupt , if Serbia &apos;s economy were in better shape .
Serbia is poor and Western aid is desperately needed .
Djindjic &apos;s murder shows that the situation is so dire that aid should no longer be strictly conditional on harsh reforms .
For the moment , extreme nationalists and Milosevic supporters may feel triumphant .
But the one certain success of Djindjic &apos;s era is that they will never return to power .
Their vision of a chauvinistic , inward @-@ looking Serbia has been discredited , while Djindjic &apos;s stance may become more popular due to his martyrdom .
Moments of defeat have always been history &apos;s turning points in Serbia .
Once again , Serbs face such a moment .
This time , however , we must resolve to remember Zoran Djindjic &apos;s cause--political and economic liberty--more than his blood sacrifice .
An Earthquake in Chinese Politics ?
BEIJING - Now that the aftershocks from the great Sichuan earthquake appear to have dissipated , it is time to ask what shocks , if any , the earthquake delivered to China &apos;s political system .
Has the quake given birth to some new , positive political force that will accelerate reform ?
It has happened before . After all , dramatic political changes - the fall of the &quot; Gang of Four &quot; and Deng Xiaoping &apos;s consolidation as China &apos;s supreme leader - did follow shortly after the devastating Tangshan earthquake in 1976 .
Given the sharp contrast between Premier Wen Jiabao &apos;s caring attitude during the earthquake and President Hu Jintao &apos;s mediocre political performance , some people could not help but imagine that the earthquake may have tipped the balance at the Communist Party &apos;s highest levels , pushing the liberal forces represented by Wen to the center of power .
But this is naive .
Unlike 30 years ago , no strong force for political reform now exists in China &apos;s vast bureaucratic system .
Back then , Mao &apos;s Cultural Revolution had forced large numbers of his revolutionary comrades onto a reformist path .
In today &apos;s China , the overwhelming majority of bureaucrats like the status quo and have enough resources to protect themselves .
Although Wen has won popular support through his tireless efforts for earthquake victims , he remains isolated in official circles .
And , although Hu can barely hide his mediocrity , the bureaucrats are unconcerned . After all , they don &apos;t want someone controlling them who is both able and serious .
But the Sichuan earthquake was not completely irrelevant to China &apos;s political progress .
Wen , who had been bogged down by the bureaucracy , had been seeking to counter it by expanding the media &apos;s openness and transparency .
He had sought to take advantage of the Beijing Olympics to give the foreign media unprecedented freedom , but the bureaucrats succeeded in reversing his decision .
The earthquake gave Wen an unexpected second opportunity .
He used television and his outstanding performance to prove that modern media and information tools can curb China &apos;s bureaucracy .
This precedent will not be easy to roll back , and will have a far @-@ reaching positive influence on China &apos;s political progress .
The earthquake , together with the media transparency that accompanied it , has made the bureaucrats more accountable .
Thousands of people , including nearly 10,000 school children , whose parents will not be easily placated , lost their lives .
Millions of dispossessed people must be re @-@ housed in a process that will last for several years .
Bureaucrats must not be allowed to spend the huge donations collected and state relief funds allotted in an arbitrary manner .
As a result , a new political culture conducive to accountability may have a realistic opportunity to grow .
But this does not mean that someone will emerge from the Party with the courage and ability to assume bold political leadership .
In fact , I believe that China &apos;s future leaders , are more likely to come from China &apos;s burgeoning , but still limited , civil society than from the bureaucracy .
One source of China &apos;s future political leadership could well be its growing NGO sector .
Although the Party uses various means to suppress their development , the Sichuan earthquake demonstrated that it has failed to eliminate NGOs as a social force .
The quake gave them an opportunity to be seen , and an unprecedented number of people had a chance to perceive this nascent civil society as a positive force that serves their own interests .
There is an even greater silent force which may produce a new generation of political leaders : the rapidly growing army of Christian believers , now estimated at 20 million .
With a population of 1.3 billion , China has no lack of people with leadership potential , and I believe that more and more of this talent is situated outside the Party bureaucracy in NGOs , startup enterprises , philanthropy , and even missionary work .
In today &apos;s mostly closed environment , they mostly lack awareness of their political skills and vision .
A more open and transparent public environment will help awaken their sense of political mission .
Yet we are left to ask : when will the time for major political change come ?
Wen Jiabao wrote recently in Sichuan that &quot; more hardship will arouse the country , &quot; evidently believing that the Chinese may still need to suffer further in order to realize political progress .
That may be true , but I also believe that a new generation of political leaders can grow up in a more open information environment .
And , in any coming showdown , we must hope that all leaders will refuse to use innocent people &apos;s lives as bargaining chips .
An Economic Agenda for Italy
MILAN - At the end of this month , Italian voters will choose their next government , from which they expect jobs and a more level economic playing field - and from which Italy &apos;s European partners expect structural reforms and fiscal probity .
What should the new government &apos;s economic @-@ policy agenda be ?
To reduce public debt , which stands above 120 % of GDP , while minimizing painful adjustments , Italy needs economic growth - something that has eluded policymakers in recent years .
Indeed , Italy &apos;s average annual GDP growth rate since joining Europe &apos;s economic and monetary union in 1999 has been an anemic 0.5 % , well below the eurozone average of nearly 1.5 % .
In the four years since the global financial crisis struck , the growth rate fell to -1.2 % , compared to the eurozone average of -0.2 % , and it is expected to remain negative this year .
The new government &apos;s biggest challenge will be to implement reforms that enable Italy &apos;s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors after years of bad policies and neglect .
This requires increased investment in innovation and human capital .
From 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest in the OECD .
Since 2001 , unit labor costs have been growing faster than real GDP and employment , undermining the economy &apos;s competitiveness vis @-@ à @-@ vis developing countries .
In the last decade , Italy &apos;s share of global exports dropped from 3.9 % to 2.9 % .
Persistently weak labor @-@ productivity growth has created a situation in which unit labor costs do not fall , even if real wages remain stagnant or decline .
Indeed , despite a 1.3 % drop in real wages in 2011 , unit labor costs remained unchanged .
Italy &apos;s new leaders must address this situation by decoupling labor &apos;s contribution to productivity growth from that of capital and total factor productivity .
According to the OECD , lower regulatory costs and more efficient public administration ( building upon measures introduced by the previous government , led by Mario Monti ) could add 0.3 @-@ 0.4 % to average annual GDP growth by 2020 .
Likewise , labor @-@ market reform , improved education , and enhanced human capital could contribute an additional 4 % to GDP growth in the next decade .
Moreover , Italian policymakers should strive to boost the female labor @-@ force participation rate , which , at 49 % , is one of the lowest in the OECD .
Doing so would raise per capita income by 1 % annually through 2030 .
At the same time , fiscal adjustment remains essential to Italy &apos;s short- and long @-@ term stability .
According to the International Monetary Fund , the budget deficit is declining , and the primary surplus ( net revenues minus interest payments ) is growing .
Italy &apos;s new leadership must sustain this progress .
Despite positive developments , the road ahead is bumpy .
Navigating it will require Italy to retain its credibility with other European Union member states and international investors .
The new prime minister will need to persuade Germany , financial markets , and the European Council that Italy is a reliable partner .
The ability to refinance government debt and keep costs down is essential to strengthening public finances and boosting GDP growth .
Furthermore , attracting more direct investment is crucial , given that capital inflows , while recovering , remain 30 % below their pre @-@ crisis level ; with outflows exceeding inflows , Italy has become a net capital exporter .
&quot; Selling &quot; Italy in Europe should entail more than photo opportunities with other leaders in Brussels and the occasional road show to financial institutions in London .
Italy &apos;s leaders should engage actively in commercial diplomacy , using the country &apos;s embassies and trade agencies to promote Italy globally , while working to build strong bilateral relations with other EU members , particularly southern countries like Spain .
At the same time , the new leaders need to &quot; sell &quot; Europe in Italy , where Euro @-@ skepticism is rampant .
According to the Pew Research Global Attitudes Project , only 30 % of Italians view the euro positively .
In the country &apos;s wealthier north , where average per capita income , at € 30,000 ( $ 40,500 ) , approaches that of Germany , people are questioning the rationale of EU membership .
The costs are evident , they argue , but what are the benefits ?
Meanwhile , fears of structural decline pervade the country .
The crisis has lasted for a long time , and people are tired .
Unemployment has risen to a record 11.2 % , with 35 % of young people jobless .
And the tax burden , which has exceeded 40 % of GDP since 1990 , now stands at almost 43 % of GDP .
A Scandinavian level of taxes would be bearable if public services did not remain inferior to those offered in Scandinavia .
For example , per capita health @-@ care spending in Sweden , Denmark , and Finland exceeds $ 3,000 , compared to only $ 2,300 in Italy , where households must contribute roughly 20 % of total health @-@ care spending .
Moreover , Italy spends around 4.5 % of GDP on education , while the Scandinavian countries spend more than 6 % of GDP .
As a result , Italian students &quot; scores in the Program for International Student Assessment are significantly lower than those of their counterparts in many other OECD countries .
Italy &apos;s new government will have to display leadership and vision to guide the economy toward stable growth , avert a race to the bottom , and stem growing social tension .
Most important , economic renewal depends on the next government &apos;s willingness and ability to address the institutional weaknesses that have made concerted action increasingly urgent .
An Egyptian Sakharov
Saad Eddin Ibrahim is Egypt &apos;s most prominent social scientist--and the most independent @-@ minded in a conformist society ruled by President Hosni Mubarak &apos;s authoritarian regime .
For years , Prof. Ibrahim headed the Cairo @-@ based Ibn @-@ Khaldun Institute , which undertook , with the European Union &apos;s encouragement , pioneering studies on women and minority rights , as well as electoral practices , in Egypt .
In a country where the President has been consistently re @-@ elected with 97 % of the vote since 1980 , Ibrahim &apos;s institute is the only academic research organization that dares to ask troubling questions about the way Egypt is run .
Two years ago , Prof. Ibrahim , together with practically all of the Ibn @-@ Khaldun Institute staff , were arrested and put on trial before a State Security Court on trumped up charges .
The allegations included financial irregularities , receiving EU funds without the proper ministerial authorization , and &quot; tarnishing Egypt &apos;s image . &quot;
Prof. Ibrahim was sentenced to seven years imprisonment .
After diplomatic pressure was applied by the United States ( through his American @-@ born wife , Prof. Ibrahim holds US citizenship ) and the EU , he was granted a re @-@ trial .
This ended days ago with the old verdict reaffirmed : seven years in prison .
Twenty @-@ seven of the Institute &apos;s staff members also received jail sentences , and the Institute is now practically destroyed .
Any dictator , from Saddam Hussein to Robert Mugabe , could take pride in this abuse of power .
But because Mubarak regime &apos;s is considered moderate , pro @-@ Western , and helpful in the context of Israeli @-@ Palestinian relations , the West &apos;s response to this and other abuses remains muted .
Indeed , the US Charge d &apos;Affaires in Cairo expressed mere &quot; disappointment &quot; at the verdict--a response that gives understatement a bad name .
Since the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington last year , America and the EU recognize ( or say that they do ) that the lack of legitimate channels of opposition in Arab countries pushes people who might otherwise be mere critics of governments into the arms of extreme Islamic fundamentalists .
Saad Eddin Ibrahim is a liberal : he is also a staunch Egyptian and Arab nationalist .
He has vehemently condemned Israeli policies vis @-@ à @-@ vis the Palestinians , and is a critic of many aspects of US foreign policy .
But his has always been the voice of a
Indeed , his is the type of voice that Egyptian civil society needs if there is ever to be a chance that the country &apos;s Pharaonic authoritarian regime--symbolized by President Mubarak &apos;s high @-@ handedness--is to be reformed .
Just because Mubarak &apos;s government persecutes Islamic terrorists , and is an ally in the war against fundamentalist extremism , is no reason to give him
Western intellectuals , who were instrumental in pressuring the Soviet Union in support of Andrei Sakharov , have been singularly quiet when it comes to Ibrahim .
An Arab intellectual persecuted by an Arab regime , it seems , is nowhere near the top of their agenda .
But it is the EU that is proving most complicit .
After all , it was the EU &apos;s effort to stimulate Egyptian civil society with its grant of funds to the Ibn @-@ Khaldun Institute that incited Ibrahim &apos;s persecution .
The EU &apos;s silence in the face of his arrest and imprisonment is shameful .
For not just Ibrahim , but the values that the EU professes to uphold , have been on trial in Egypt , and they have been mocked by the Mubarak &apos;s regime idea of justice .
Europe must work--promptly--to overturn Ibrahim &apos;s conviction .
The EU should consider blocking all its educational and cultural programs in Egypt if the verdict on Ibrahim and his associates is not overturned and the Ibn Khaldun Institute not re @-@ opened and restored to full vigor .
Just as the fight for Andrei Sakharov was also a fight for an open society in Russia and thus helped dismantle Communist tyranny , so the fight for Ibrahim &apos;s freedom is a fight to put an end to Egypt &apos;s oppressive authoritarian regime .
An Energy Tax for Europe
George W. Bush &apos;s disastrous war in Iraq has put Europe in a bind .
The United States long has been Europe &apos;s protector .
Now , because of a war it wanted no part of , Europe finds its security undermined .
Chaos in Iraq has empowered Iran - a much more dangerous country for Europe than Iraq ever was .
And , with America bogged down in Iraq , Russian President Vladimir Putin has resurrected Soviet @-@ style bullying tactics .
Would Russia otherwise have dared to threaten to re @-@ direct its nuclear missiles at European cities ?
Not only has Bush destroyed Iran &apos;s most formidable enemy and bogged down US troops in a hopeless cause ; he also has enriched energy @-@ abundant Iran and Russia by pursuing a war that has dramatically raised energy prices .
High crude oil prices make it easier for Iran to build nuclear weapons and for Russia to use energy blackmail to threaten Europe .
But Europe can fight back .
By imposing a stiff tax on energy consumption , Europeans would reduce both consumption of energy and its price in world markets , in turn cutting the flow of funds to Russia and Iran .
Because crude oil is priced in US dollars , and the dollar has depreciated against the euro , European consumers have gotten off relatively easy from rising energy prices .
So an energy tax roughly equal to the euro &apos;s 33 % appreciation in recent years would be about right .
Europeans might be forgiven for thinking that the Americans , who pumped up oil prices in the first place with their military misadventure in Iraq , should be the ones who &quot; pump it down &quot; with an energy tax .
But , with a &quot; Texas oil man &quot; in the White House , it won &apos;t happen .
Perhaps after 2008 , the politics in America will change in favor of an energy tax , but such a tax is needed now .
Besides , given the strength of environmentalism in Europe , the issue is tailor @-@ made for Europeans to take the lead .
Moreover , Europeans do not narrowly equate national security with military spending .
They know that confiscating the checkbooks of Russia and Iran would probably make the world a lot safer than building another submarine or aircraft carrier .
Indeed , an energy tax would not only effectively counter the argument that Europeans are &quot; free riders &quot; when it comes to defense ; it would be tantamount to defense leadership .
Still , with the amount of real resources transferred to their governments already high , Europeans might balk at a further increase .
That is why the energy tax must be imposed as a tax substitution , with income or payroll taxes simultaneously reduced to keep real resource transfers to government at a constant level .
This would increase economic growth as well as strengthen national security .
Critics who worry about the cost of the energy tax have not thought about tax substitutions .
They also do not seem to realize that an energy tax is a much cheaper way for Europe to protect itself from Iran and Russia than alternative means , such as a defense buildup .
Europe currently lacks military muscle because it made a decision a half @-@ century ago to be protected by the US and devote the saved resources to building up its welfare state .
This strategy - which worked well for decades - always carried the risk that at some point America &apos;s resources might be tied up elsewhere , leaving Europe under @-@ protected .
That risk materialized with the Iraq war .
But Europeans are showing little taste for increased defense spending , Iraq or no Iraq .
Even France &apos;s new president , Nicolas Sarkozy - thought by many to be a pro @-@ American foreign policy hawk - is backing away from his campaign promise to maintain defense spending at 2 % of GDP .
In a recent speech to the French defense industry , Sarkozy conspicuously failed to repeat the pledge , instead warning that he soon might cut France &apos;s defense budget .
According to a respected defense industry publication , Sarkozy changed his mind after his party &apos;s smaller @-@ than @-@ anticipated victory in June &apos;s parliamentary election .
The reason Europeans are reluctant to increase defense spending is expense .
Cutting welfare spending - where the big money is - would be painful .
Solemn promises made over the years would have to be broken ( people would not get the social services that they paid for with a lifetime of high taxes ) , lives would be shortened ( less money for hospitals and nursing homes ) , and overall hardship increased .
Even economic growth will not prevent a tradeoff between defense and welfare spending for Europeans .
Fifty years of defense dependence on the US has created a powerful &quot; peace industry &quot; in Europe whose primary business is to fight defense spending tooth and nail .
They will want to protect all social spending , regardless of the consequences for foreign policy .
A counterweight to the &quot; peace crowd &quot; may be new migrants from Eastern Europe , for whom cuts in social services would break no promises , and for whom job availability and wage levels are more important .
But it will take some time before the new migrants gain decisive political influence , and the problems of Iran and Russia for Europe require immediate attention .
In short , Europeans will not allow Bush &apos;s Iraq war to become a war on their welfare state .
What makes the energy imposed as a tax substitution tax particularly attractive as a defense measure is that it leaves the welfare state intact while making Europe safer , greener , and richer .
Why wait ?
An Epidemic of Politics
Americans , like citizens in countries throughout the world , have come to accept that politics plays an important role in the appointment of certain kinds of public officials .
Few of us are surprised ( though some may be disappointed ) when a federal judgeship is awarded or a senior diplomat appointed because the candidate passes a litmus test of loyalty to some principle that is important to the President &apos;s or Prime Minister &apos;s party .
But science , almost everyone agrees , is different , and here the United States is beginning to stand as a cautionary example to the rest of the world .
Scientific appointments should rest on objective criteria of training , ability , and performance .
Clearly , it is legitimate to interrogate a future Secretary of Health and Human Services ( HHS ) about his views on abortion .
But it is entirely out of place when appointees to scientific advisory committees are subjected to tests of political loyalty .
Similarly , membership of bodies that conduct peer review of scientific proposals - a process that is fundamental to scientific progress - surely ought to be free of all barriers to entry that are unrelated to professional qualifications .
Unfortunately , scientists in the US are running up against such barriers more and more often .
During the past fall , the journal Science published several news stories related to the issue .
One involved the wholesale replacement of members of the advisory committee to the National Center for Environmental Health , a part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) , without consulting the center &apos;s director .
Similar cases involved the CDC &apos;s Advisory Committee on Lead Poisoning and Prevention , the Advisory Committee on National Human Research Protections , and the Advisory Committee on Genetic Testing .
The current epidemic of ideology , in which advisory committees are shut down and reassembled with new members , and candidates are subjected to loyalty tests , seems old hat to some observers .
Officials at the HHS call it &quot; fairly standard practice . &quot;
Well , it isn &apos;t standard practice in America - or at least it wasn &apos;t .
In any case , what &apos;s really worrisome is not that the Bush administration examines candidates for compatibility with its &quot; values . &quot;
The most alarming development is how deep the ideological vetting now cuts , invading areas that once were immune to this kind of manipulation .
Indeed , perhaps the most telling case in the widening political epidemic was a membership re @-@ shuffle of the study section at the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health that evaluates grants for studying workplace injuries .
Advisory committees might have been vulnerable to occasional stacking of this kind in the past .
After all , they recommend the policies that politicians may or may not want to consider .
But study sections ?
In October 2002,
Their piece was a story in itself , but what followed was even more interesting .
It set off a volley of letters in which scientists told of similar experiences .
A nominee for the National Institutes of Health &apos;s Muscular Dystrophy Research Coordinating Committee told of being vetted by a White House staff member .
After being asked about her views on various Bush administration policies , none of them related to the work of the committee , she was asked whether she supports the president &apos;s policy on embryonic stem cells .
Another letter writer , a distinguished professor of psychiatry and psychology , reported receiving a call from the White House about his nomination to serve on the National Council on Drug Abuse .
The caller declared that he must vet him to &quot; determine whether he held any views that might be embarrassing to the president . &quot;
According to the professor , a series of questions followed , with the White House official keeping a running score .
One example : &quot; You &apos;re two for three ; the president opposes needle exchange &#91; for intravenous drug users &#93; on moral grounds , regardless of the outcome . &quot;
Then the exchange took an even more chilling turn .
The official asked the nominee whether he had voted for Bush , and , on being informed that he had not , asked : &quot; Why didn &apos;t you support the president ? &quot;
This is the stuff of dictatorship , not democracy .
The purpose of scientific advisory committees is to provide balanced , thoughtful advice to the policy process .
Nothing is gained - and much is lost - when a desired policy outcome is put first .
This is why deciding which research projects to support has always been a matter for objective peer review , not politicians . In fact , the applicable statute for all this - the Federal Advisory Committee Act - specifically
US Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson and the White House Personnel Office ought to set an example to the rest of the world .
They can do so very easily : by following the law .
An External Stability Pact for Europe
BERLIN - The current economic crisis has exposed two fundamental problems in the design of the European Monetary Union .
The first concerns the sustainability of public finances in a number of euro @-@ zone member states .
Second , inadequate macroeconomic policy coordination has resulted in divergences in the international competitiveness of euro @-@ zone members , threatening the very existence of the euro .
Countries whose public finances seemed fundamentally sound as late as last year have come under severe fiscal pressure .
Ireland &apos;s government debt is expected to rise to almost 80 % of GDP by 2010 , whereas just a year ago the European Commission projected that Ireland &apos;s government debt would be below 30 % of GDP .
Likewise , whereas Spain was expected to decrease its debt ratio , its debt @-@ to @-@ GDP ratio is now likely to double between 2007 and 2010 , to more than 60 % .
The EU &apos;s fiscal surveillance mechanisms failed to predict these developments because they neglect a crucial variable : the dynamics of private @-@ sector debt .
Given the high economic costs of a banking crisis , governments are likely to take on the liabilities of their financial sector when a crisis hits - as recently occurred in the United Kingdom and Ireland , and in financial crises in Latin America and Asia in the 1990 &quot; s .
The same is probably true when key business sectors near insolvency .
A country with sound public finances can thus become a fiscal basket case practically overnight .
Given the increasingly close financial and economic linkages between euro @-@ zone members , rising government debt in even one EMU country can have serious consequences for all members , because no member state will allow another to default .
Thus , EMU members indirectly share the liability for fellow countries &quot; private @-@ sector debt , which for this reason should be monitored within the EMU &apos;s surveillance framework .
Another apparent problem is that EMU member states - at least until now - do not coordinate their economic policies effectively .
Even before the crisis , this resulted in divergences in competitiveness and in the business cycle .
The persistent loss in competitiveness over the past decade is one reason why the crisis is hitting some southern European EMU countries such as Spain and Italy so hard .
The inefficiency of fiscal @-@ policy control and the lack of economic convergence are a matter of increasing concern to both the European Central Bank and euro @-@ zone finance ministers .
While no initiative for coping with these problems has been tabled so far , the issue is certain to become a matter of debate within the EMU .
One way to tackle the problems associated with government debt , as well as to improve economic policy coordination , is through a simple extension of existing rules : an &quot; External Stability Pact &quot; could be introduced to complement current EMU regulations .
This pact would monitor current @-@ account imbalances and penalize excessive deficits or surpluses in the external account .
Monitoring external balances can be an effective tool to measure future default risks , since sustained current @-@ account deficits lead to a growth in net foreign debt .
Moreover , there is a direct relationship between the EMU countries &quot; private @-@ sector debt dynamics and their current @-@ account imbalances within the euro zone .
So long as a national government is not running more than a modest deficit , a current @-@ account deficit reflects the private sector &apos;s borrowing from abroad ( or the sale of previously accumulated foreign assets ) .
If the current @-@ account balance is assessed together with the fiscal position , it becomes possible to draw conclusions about risky debt trends within the private sector .
The mathematics of debt dynamics suggest that no euro @-@ zone country should have a current @-@ account imbalance , whether a deficit or a surplus , of more than 3 % of GDP .
Exceptions could be granted for countries with large inflows of foreign direct investment in greenfield projects .
The rule should apply both to debtor and creditor countries .
After all , payment imbalances always have two sides , and the burden of adjustment should not be borne only by deficit countries .
Such a pact would oblige governments to use fiscal and wage policies as well as overall economic policy to achieve external balance .
It would also lead to broader economic @-@ policy coordination , particularly with respect to wage @-@ setting , because governments would be compelled to use national legislation and public @-@ sector wage settlements to influence wage policy in such a way that imbalances among euro @-@ zone countries are reduced .
Furthermore , an External Stability Pact would oblige governments to take into account the consequences for other member states when designing national economic reforms .
If a &quot; surplus country &quot; such as Germany wanted to lower non @-@ wage labor costs and increase value @-@ added tax in order to boost its competitiveness , it would simultaneously have to adopt an expansive fiscal policy to compensate for the negative effects on its partners &quot; foreign trade .
Within the framework of these rules , individual countries would retain the authority to design their policies .
The Spanish government , for example , could have met Spain &apos;s building boom and foreign @-@ trade deficit with tax increases or by urging domestic wage restraint .
Alternatively , it could have intervened by instituting planning regulations or imposing limits on mortgage loans .
An External Stability Pact would not only detect risks to fiscal stability early on ; it would also help make a reality of a fundamental principle of EU law , namely that member states finally treat economic policy as a &quot; common interest . &quot;
An Honest Man ?
In his gushing account of President George W. Bush , the former presidential speechwriter David Frum tells us that his boss &quot; scorned the petty untruths of the politician . &quot;
We learn , for example , that when asked to prepare a radio broadcast for the following day , he would begin reading , &quot; Today I am in California &quot; and quickly break off , saying with exasperation , &quot; But I &apos;m not in California . &quot;
Frum thought this a bit pedantic , but concluded that it was emblematic of the President &apos;s character and that &quot; the country could trust the Bush administration not to cheat and not to lie . &quot;
How wrong Frum now seems .
Bush may naively consider it lying , and therefore wrong , to say that he is in California when he is recording a speech in Washington .
But he fails to see anything gravely wrong about misleading his country and the world concerning Iraq &apos;s weapons of mass destruction .
As we have seen , the White House built its case for war on a highly selective dossier of evidence , and Bush made statements about Iraq &apos;s attempt to purchase uranium from Africa that he and his staff knew to be highly doubtful , if not false .
When questions were raised about how the statement about uranium was allowed to remain in Bush &apos;s State of the Union address , both National Security Advisor Condoleeza Rice and Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld argued that it was not a lie .
Their reasoning indicates that they , like the President , have a childishly literal notion of what it is to lie .
Bush &apos;s actual words were these : &quot; The British government has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa . &quot;
Bush &apos;s statement took this form because the CIA objected to the original version , which flatly stated that Saddam Hussein had sought to buy uranium from Africa .
The White House staff member who discussed it with the CIA then suggested changing the sentence so that it stated that the British reported that Saddam Hussein had
This was literally true , because the British had reported that .
It was nevertheless misleading , for the CIA had informed the British that their information was not reliable .
The fact that Bush only referred to a British statement is the basis for Rice and Rumsfeld &apos;s defense of it .
Rice said that &quot; the statement that &#91; Bush &#93; made was indeed accurate .
The British government did say that . &quot;
Rumsfeld said that Bush &apos;s statement was &quot; technically accurate . &quot;
In fact , even on the most literal interpretation , Bush &apos;s statement was not accurate .
Bush did not say merely that the British had &quot; reported &quot; that Iraq had sought to buy uranium from Africa , but that the British had &quot; learned &quot; this .
To say that someone has learned something is to endorse what they say they have learned as true .
Imagine that the British had said that Saddam Hussein was a peace @-@ loving man about to bring democracy to his country .
Would Bush have said that the British had
Quite apart from these weak attempts to justify Bush &apos;s statement as &quot; technically accurate , &quot; the more serious charge is that even if what Bush said really were technically accurate , it still would have been designed to mislead the world into thinking that Iraq had been trying to buy uranium in Africa .
Bush and his staff had good reason to believe that this was not true .
Bush &apos;s response to the issue after it became public shows him to be focused on the trivial and morally reckless about the essential .
A person who is morally sensitive to the seriousness of starting a war on the basis of misleading information would take appropriate steps .
He would ensure that the American public knew how the error occurred , and that whoever was responsible for it suffered the usual consequences that befall senior officials who make what was--to put the best possible interpretation on it--a grave error of judgment .
But Bush did nothing of the sort .
When the issue became public , Bush &apos;s response was to condemn his critics as &quot; revisionist historians &quot; and to evade questions about the credibility of the information he had provided by asserting that the removal of Saddam was a good outcome .
Then he said that the CIA had cleared his speech , as if that absolved him of all responsibility .
After CIA Director George Tenet took responsibility for the inclusion of the misleading material , Bush said that he &quot; absolutely &quot; had confidence in Tenet and the CIA , and that he considered the matter closed .
Belief in Bush &apos;s honesty led many voters to prefer him to Albert Gore in the 2000 presidential election .
Among voters who rated &quot; honesty &quot; as an important factor influencing their choice of candidate , 80 % said that they voted for Bush .
These voters were disgusted with Clinton , not only for his sexual relationship with White House intern Monica Lewinsky , but for lying about it .
That Clinton did lie about his sexual activities is clear , and he was wrong to do so .
But his lies did not lead his country into a war that has cost thousands of lives .
Bush &apos;s excessively literal interpretation of the requirements of honesty conceals a deeper dishonesty whose consequences have been far more morally serious .
An IMF We Can Love ?
CAMBRIDGE - What a difference the crisis has made for the International Monetary Fund .
It was just a few months ago that this important but unloved institution , a landmark of post @-@ war global economic arrangements , seemed destined to irrelevance .
The IMF has long been a whipping boy for both left and right - the former because of the Fund &apos;s emphasis on fiscal rectitude and economic orthodoxy , and the latter because of its role in bailing out indebted nations .
Developing nations grudgingly took its advice , while advanced nations , not needing the money , ignored it . In a world where private capital flows dwarf the resources at its disposal , the IMF had come to seem an anachronism .
And , when some of the IMF &apos;s largest debtors ( Brazil and Argentina ) began to prepay their debts a few years ago with no new borrowers in sight , it looked like the final nail in the coffin had been struck .
The IMF seemed condemned to run out of income , in addition to losing its raison d &quot; être .
It shrank its budgets and began to downsize , and , while it was handed some new responsibilities in the meantime - surveillance over &quot; currency manipulation , &quot; in particular - its deliberations proved largely irrelevant .
But the crisis has invigorated the IMF .
Under its capable managing director , Dominique Strauss @-@ Kahn , the Fund has been one of the few official agencies ahead of - instead of behind - the curve .
It moved quickly to establish a fast @-@ disbursing emergency line of credit for countries with &quot; reasonable &quot; policies .
It ardently championed global fiscal stimulus on the order of 2 % of world GNP - a position that is all the more remarkable in view of its traditional conservatism on all fiscal matters .
And , in the run @-@ up to the G @-@ 20 summit in London , it thoroughly overhauled its lending policies , de @-@ emphasizing traditional conditionality and making it easier for countries to qualify for loans .
Even more significantly , the IMF has emerged from the London meeting with substantially greater resources , as well as new responsibilities . The G @-@ 20 promised to triple the Fund &apos;s lending capacity ( from $ 250 billion to $ 750 billion ) , issue $ 250 billion of new Special Drawing Rights ( a reserve asset made up of a basket of major currencies ) , and permit the Fund to borrow in capital markets ( which it has never done ) if necessary .
The IMF was also designated as one of two lead agencies - along with an expanded Financial Stability Forum ( now renamed the Financial Stability Board ) - charged with providing early warning of macroeconomic and financial risks and issuing the requisite policy recommendations .
Another piece of good news is that the Europeans have now given up their claim on naming the IMF &apos;s managing director ( as have the Americans their corresponding claim on the World Bank presidency ) .
These senior officials are henceforth to be selected &quot; through an open , transparent , and merit @-@ based selection process . &quot;
This will provide for better governance ( although Strauss @-@ Kahn &apos;s leadership has been exemplary ) , and will enhance both institutions &quot; legitimacy in the eyes of developing nations .
So the IMF now finds itself at the center of the economic universe once again .
How will it choose to deploy its newfound power ?
The greatest risk is that it will once again over @-@ reach and over @-@ play its hand .
That is what happened in the second half of the 1990 &quot; s , as the IMF began to preach capital @-@ account liberalization , applied over @-@ stringent fiscal remedies during the Asian financial crisis , and single @-@ handedly tried to reshape Asian economies .
The institution has since acknowledged its errors in all these areas .
But it remains to be seen if the lessons have been fully internalized , and whether we will have a kinder , gentler IMF in lieu of a rigid , doctrinaire one .
One encouraging fact is that developing countries will almost certainly get a larger say in how the Fund is run .
This will ensure that poorer nations &quot; views receive a more sympathetic hearing in the future .
But simply giving developing nations greater voting power will make little difference if the IMF &apos;s organizational culture is not changed as well .
The Fund is staffed by a large number of smart economists , who lack much connection to ( and appreciation for ) the institutional realities of the countries on which they work .
Their professional expertise is validated by the quality of their advanced degrees , rather than by their achievements in practical policymaking .
This breeds arrogance and a sense of smug superiority over their counterparts - policymakers who must balance multiple , complicated agendas .
Countering this will require proactive efforts by the IMF &apos;s top leadership in recruitment , staffing , and promotion .
One option would be to increase substantially the number of mid @-@ career recruits with actual practical experience in developing countries .
This would make the IMF staff more cognizant of the value of local knowledge relative to theoretical expertise .
Another strategy would be to relocate some of the staff , including those in functional departments , to &quot; regional offices &quot; in the field .
This move would likely face considerable resistance from staff who have gotten used to the perks of Washington , DC .
But there is no better way to appreciate the role of context than to live in it .
The World Bank , which engaged in a similar decentralization a while back , has become better at serving its clients as a result ( without facing difficulties in recruiting top talent ) .
This is an important moment for the IMF .
The international community is putting great store in the Fund &apos;s judgment and performance .
The Fund will require internal reforms to earn that trust fully .
An Inconvenient Peace Prize
This year &apos;s Nobel Peace Prize justly rewards the thousands of scientists of the United Nations Climate Change Panel ( the IPCC ) .
These scientists are engaged in excellent , painstaking work that establishes exactly what the world should expect from climate change .
The other award winner , former US Vice President Al Gore , has spent much more time telling us what to fear .
While the IPCC &apos;s estimates and conclusions are grounded in careful study , Gore doesn &apos;t seem to be similarly restrained .
Gore told the world in his Academy Award @-@ winning movie ( recently labeled &quot; one @-@ sided &quot; and containing &quot; scientific errors &quot; by a British judge ) to expect 20 @-@ foot sea @-@ level rises over this century .
He ignores the findings of his Nobel co @-@ winners , the IPCC , who conclude that sea levels will rise between only a half @-@ foot and two feet over this century , with their best expectation being about one foot .
That &apos;s similar to what the world experienced over the past 150 years .
Likewise , Gore agonizes over the accelerated melting of ice in Greenland and what it means for the planet , but overlooks the IPCC &apos;s conclusion that , if sustained , the current rate of melting would add just three inches to the sea level rise by the end of the century .
Gore also takes no notice of research showing that Greenland &apos;s temperatures were higher in 1941 than they are today .
Gore also frets about the future of polar bears .
He claims they are drowning as their icy habitat disappears .
However , the only scientific study showing any such thing indicates that four polar bears drowned because of a storm .
The politician @-@ turned @-@ movie maker loses sleep over a predicted rise in heat @-@ related deaths .
There &apos;s another side of the story that &apos;s inconvenient to mention : rising temperatures will reduce the number of cold spells , which are a much bigger killer than heat .
The best study shows that by 2050 , heat will claim 400,000 more lives , but 1.8 million fewer will die because of cold .
Indeed , according to the first complete survey of the economic effects of climate change for the world , global warming will actually save lives .
The IPCC has magnanimously declared that it would have been happy if Gore had received the Nobel Peace prize alone .
I am glad that he did not , and that the IPCC &apos;s work has rightfully been acknowledged .
Gore has helped the world to worry .
Unfortunately , our attention is diverted from where it matters .
Climate change is not the only problem facing the globe .
Our blinkered focus on it - to the detriment of other planetary challenges - will only be heightened by the attention generated by Gore &apos;s Nobel Peace Prize .
Gore concentrates above all else on his call for world leaders to cut CO2 emissions , yet there are other policies that would do much more for the planet .
Over the coming century , developing nations will be increasingly dependent on food imports from developed countries .
This is not primarily a result of global warming , but a consequence of more people and less arable land in the developing world .
The number of hungry people depends much less on climate than on demographics and income .
Extremely expensive cuts in carbon emissions could mean more malnourished people .
If our goal is to fight malnutrition , policies like getting nutrients to those who need them are 5,000 times more effective at saving lives than spending billions of dollars cutting carbon emissions .
Likewise , global warming will probably slightly increase malaria , but CO2 reductions will be far less effective at fighting this disease than mosquito nets and medication , which can cheaply save 850,000 lives every year .
By contrast , the expensive Kyoto Protocol will prevent just 1,400 deaths from malaria each year .
While we worry about the far @-@ off effects of climate change , we do nothing to deal with issues facing the planet today .
This year , malnutrition will kill almost four million people .
Three million lives will be lost to HIV / AIDS .
Two and a half million people will die because of indoor and outdoor air pollution .
A lack of micronutrients and clean drinking water will claim two million lives each .
With attention and money in scarce supply , what matters is that we first tackle the problems with the best solutions , doing the most good throughout the century .
If we focus on solving today &apos;s problems , we will leave communities strengthened , economies more vibrant , and infrastructures more robust .
This will enable these societies to deal much better with future problems - including global warming .
Committing to massive cuts in carbon emissions will leave future generations poorer and less able to adapt to challenges .
Gore has an unshakable faith that climate change is the biggest challenge facing the world .
To be fair , he deserves some form of recognition for his resolute passion .
However , the contrast between this year &apos;s Nobel winners could not be sharper .
The IPCC engages in meticulous research where facts rule over everything else .
Gore has a very different approach .
An India @-@ China Axis ?
Is a new alignment between India and China rising to balance America &apos;s global power ?
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao just completed a four @-@ day visit to India during which 11 agreements were signed , including a comprehensive five @-@ year strategic cooperation pact .
In addition , Wen announced that China would support India &apos;s bid for a permanent seat on an expanded UN Security Council , and opposed the inclusion of Japan , which the United States supports for a Council seat .
With over a third of the world &apos;s population and two of the globe &apos;s highest economic growth rates , an alliance between China and India could be a serious factor in world politics .
While both are developing countries - many of whose people remain impoverished - they also boast impressive capabilities in information age technologies both for civilian and military purposes .
As Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh put it during Wen &apos;s visit , &quot; India and China can together reshape the world order . &quot;
The two countries &quot; recent rapprochement marks a huge change from the hostility that bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the Himalayas .
When I first visited India as an American government official in the late 1970 &quot; s , I was struck by my Indian hosts &quot; fixation on gaining equal status with China .
In 1998 , when India tested its nuclear weapons , the defense minister referred to China , and then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee spoke of China as India &apos;s number one enemy .
By contrast , on more recent visits to India , I have found my hosts referring to the need to learn from China .
Trade between the two giants has grown from $ 100 million in 1994 to nearly $ 14 billion last year , and India &apos;s minister of commerce and industry has predicted that it will double by this decade &apos;s end .
One agreement signed during Wen &apos;s visit was a new set of guiding principles on how to settle boundary disputes between the two countries .
While improved relations and diminished prospects for conflict are welcome , relations between India and China are more complex than they appear at first .
Not long before the visit of the Chinese premier , India hosted US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice .
Ever since President Bill Clinton &apos;s visit to India , but especially under President George W. Bush , the US has moved from relative indifference to India to the development of a strong strategic relationship .
This new approach might have seemed threatened by Al Qaeda &apos;s attacks on America , which led to a strengthening of US relations with Pakistan &apos;s General Parvez Musharaff .
But the US reassured India that they faced a common threat from transnational terrorism , and that the old Cold War pairings of India and Pakistan were outdated .
Secretary Rice made this plain during her March visit , stressing the importance of a strategic relationship , including a willingness to consider trade in high technology , nuclear energy , and co @-@ production of fighter aircraft such as F @-@ 16 &quot; s and F @-@ 18 &quot; s .
Shortly after Rice &apos;s visit , the US announced that it would honor a long @-@ standing promise to sell F @-@ 16 &quot; s to Pakistan .
While the announcement incited Indian protests , they were relatively muted compared to the past .
One reason is that the State Department also issued a statement that America would help India to become a major world power in the twenty @-@ first century , involving both a strategic and economic dialogue .
Several factors underpin this new American attitude toward India . Rhetoric about &quot; the world &apos;s two largest democracies &quot; is not new , but it fits with the Bush administration &apos;s new emphasis on promoting democracy .
The increasing role of the Indian diaspora in the US , particularly in the information industries , also had an influence , as has the rise in bilateral trade accompanying India &apos;s surging economic growth .
Equally important are strategic concerns about transnational terrorism and the rise of Chinese power .
The rise of China is a major factor in the politics of the twenty @-@ first century .
China has tripled the size of its economy in the past two decades , and has been increasing its military strength .
While both India and the US seek trade and good relations with China , both are aware - and wary - of China &apos;s growing strength .
Thus , both seek to hedge their bets , and what better way to do so than by improving their strategic relationship ?
Neither country aims to restrain China in the way the &quot; containment &quot; strategy aimed at an aggressive Soviet Union during the Cold War , but both want to create an international structure that does not tempt China to throw its weight around .
India has a 3,000 @-@ kilometer border with China , a 2,000 @-@ kilometer border with Pakistan ( which has been the beneficiary of Chinese military and nuclear assistance ) , and growing concerns about the security of sea routes in the Indian Ocean over which oil and other trade move .
As one Indian strategist put it to me during a recent visit , &quot; By 2030 , we envisage the US , China , and India as the three largest powers in world politics .
We don &apos;t want a China- or a US @-@ dominated world , but if we had to choose , it would be easier for us to live with the latter . &quot;
So , while improvement in India @-@ China relations is welcome , it is unlikely to herald the beginning of an India @-@ China alliance against the US .
Rather , it more likely represents another move in India &apos;s age @-@ old tradition of managing regional balances of power .
An Indirect Route to a Palestinian State ?
RAMALLAH - Palestinians and Israelis have different and possibly contradictory expectations from the indirect negotiations that the United States has pushed both sides into beginning .
Israel was among the first parties to welcome the Arab League &apos;s reluctant decision to back Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas &apos;s call for Arabs to give their blessing to the talks .
It is clear that for Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu &apos;s right @-@ wing government , the start of indirect talks without freezing settlement activities in the West Bank and Jerusalem is a sort of victory .
Just to remind the world of this , as the indirect talks were preparing to get off the ground , Israel &apos;s government approved a decision to break ground on 112 housing units in a settlement south of Bethlehem , and 1600 new settlement units in East Jerusalem .
For Palestinians , the return to talks , albeit indirect , is focused on one strategic issue : borders .
The idea , a new one , aims at getting the Israelis and Palestinians to agree to the borders of the Palestinian state that both sides and the rest of the world have said is the way out of the decades @-@ old conflict .
Palestinians want the areas occupied by Israel following the June 1967 War to be the territory of the Palestinian state .
This fits with United Nations Security Council resolutions , among them Number 242 , which stated the &amp; quot ; inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by war . &amp; quot ;
But a return to the 1967 borders would mean that large settlement blocks - as well as smaller settlements and East Jerusalem - would be part of the Palestinians state .
Few expect that to happen .
Previous talks have included an allowance for land exchanges , which would permit Israel to keep many large settlement blocks by giving land inside Israel to the Palestinians .
The most likely swap would probably involve territory to create a West Bank @-@ Gaza land corridor .
Jerusalem will be much more difficult to demarcate .
Palestinians and Israelis have publicly said that they do not want a wall separating West and East Jerusalem .
Among the various ideas in circulation , most incorporate former US President Bill Clinton &apos;s call for Jerusalem &apos;s Jewish communities to be part of Israel and the Arab communities to be part of Palestine .
But this plan has been put to the test lately by right @-@ wing Israelis &quot; forcible takeover of Palestinian properties in the heart of East Jerusalem &apos;s Sheikh Jarah neighborhood .
Hundreds of Israeli peace supporters , along with some international activists , have joined evicted Palestinians to protest the actions of these radical settlers , which have been supported by municipal and government officials .
Unfortunately , therefore , the indirect negotiations now being launched are unlikely to produce any tangible result on the borders of the Palestinian state .
Indeed , to expect such results by the proposed four @-@ month deadline is highly implausible .
Nevertheless , for both sides , the process can be as important as the results .
For Israelis , these talks will relieve US and other international pressure , while at the same time providing some legitimacy to Netanyahu &apos;s position of talking peace without giving up on settlements and Jerusalem .
Many will say that this appearance of supporting peace without surrendering land has been Israel &apos;s successful position for decades .
For Palestinians however , this process is different from negotiations in the past .
Stubbornly refusing to talk face to face while settlement activities are not completely frozen has focused attention on what many believe is the crux of Israel &apos;s colonial occupation regime .
For many Palestinians and Israelis , as well as for the international community , the shape and details of what would be a settlement acceptable to majorities on both sides is well known . By focusing on the need to reach agreements on borders within a short time period , Palestinians are saying that they do not see any need to negotiate gradual steps , preferring to agree on the final settlement first and then work back on issues of implementation .
Perhaps the most interesting new aspect in the upcoming indirect talks is what has been happening on the ground in the occupied territories .
Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad has been active in executing a strategic plan that is expected to lead to a
The American negotiators who are planning to play an active role in the indirect talks , and will for the first time sit at the negotiating table if face @-@ to @-@ face talks do take place , have apparently promised the Palestinians that the US will point its finger at the party that dares to derail the negotiations .
Such a US declaration ( if it declares Israel at fault ) would give Palestinians the opportunity to declare the talks a failure and thus move toward a unilateral declaration of statehood in the hope that the world community will recognize such a state .
Europe has already said that it would recognize such a unilateral declaration .
In that case , the Americans would have a hard time refusing to recognize a Palestinian state that fits what the international community has said is the only acceptable solution to this intractable conflict .
An Inequality Tax
The economic booms in China and India have helped to reduce global inequality .
Over the two last decades , masses of Indians and Chinese have closed the gap ( in relative terms ) with the rich world .
But , at the same time , many of the world &apos;s truly poor countries have fallen further behind ( particularly in Africa , where developments are often described as catastrophic ) , and inequality within most countries has risen .
Widening inequality has been recorded in the United States ( starting with Ronald Reagan &apos;s administration ) , the United Kingdom ( starting with Margaret Thatcher ) , Russia during its privatization , and more recently in China and India .
These developments seem to add to global inequality .
So , on balance , it seems that global inequality has been relatively stable during the last two decades .
Should anything be done about this ?
Many think that no global action to fight economic inequality is necessary .
They argue that only poverty reduction matters .
In the words of Anne Krueger , the Deputy Managing Director of the IMF , &quot; Poor people are desperate to improve their material conditions ... rather than to march up the income distribution &#91; ladder &#93; . &quot;
Thus , even if the absolute income gap between an average American and an average African increases , why worry ?
After all , such people argue , the average African would be a bit less poor .
But this assumes that our income relative to the income of others does not matter .
On the contrary , psychological studies invariably show that people care not only about their absolute income , but also about where they stand in the social pyramid and whether their position is fair .
In the past , a poor African might have looked at his compatriots and resented their wealth ; now , both he and his better @-@ off compatriots look at the rich world and resent the huge income gaps they see .
The gaps are most obvious where people from different countries work together , as in many multinational companies .
An &quot; expatriate &quot; may be paid ten times more than local staff for the same job .
A wage premium based solely on citizenship is grating .
But even when people do not work together , globalization , by bringing the world to everyone &apos;s living room ( or hut ) , enables them to make much wider comparisons of their living standards .
It erodes the relative security in which the rich world could shelter itself , as in a cocoon .
Now , all can see these income differences .
This is why international action to address both global poverty and global inequality is needed .
Global redistribution through taxes that would be levied by an international body may seem far @-@ fetched today , but the logic of development that we are witnessing - particularly the move away from nation @-@ states as the locus of sovereignty - suggests that it may eventually come to pass .
One such opportunity was missed in the early 1990 &quot; s .
When Russia faced its worst crisis , aid was given to the corrupt Yeltsin regime .
But it should have been disbursed directly in cash to the most needy Russians : pensioners whose earnings plummeted due to inflation and economic contraction .
An international organization could have simply used the existing infrastructure of the Russian state to distribute cash grants to some 20 million pensioners - money that would have been much better targeted and spent than by giving the same amount to the government .
If this had been done , Russians would have fondly remembered receiving cash aid from the international community rather than blaming it for transferring funds to corrupt leaders .
But the same or a similar approach could be taken in many countries today , from Angola to Zimbabwe .
The approach is simple and powerful . It involves three steps : raise money from the globally rich , do not deal with governments , and transfers funds in cash to the poor .
Those who advocate leaving globalization exclusively in the hands of the private sector may resent the idea of vesting tax @-@ raising authority in a global agency .
But they cannot fail to notice that the processes they support undercut their own position by rendering the wealth gap more obvious and the fairness of the actual global distribution more questionable .
They will ultimately realize that their self @-@ interest lies in supporting some form of global action to deal with both poverty and inequality .
An Inflation Reality Check
CAMBRIDGE - As inflation continues to soar everywhere , maybe the world &apos;s central bankers need a jolt to awaken them from complacency .
How about holding one of their bi @-@ monthly meetings in hyperinflationary Zimbabwe ?
It might not be comfortable , but it would be educational .
According to Zimbabwe &apos;s official statistical agency , inflation topped 66,000 % in 2007 , which looks more like Weimar Germany than modern @-@ day Africa .
While no one is quite certain how the government managed to estimate prices , given that there is virtually nothing for sale in the shops , most indicators suggest that Zimbabwe does have a good shot at breaking world records for inflation .
Of course , curious as they might be , central bankers could decide that meeting in Harare would be too inconvenient and politically unpalatable .
Fortunately , there are lots of other nice - albeit less spectacular - inflation destinations .
Inflation in Russia , Vietnam , Argentina , and Venezuela is solidly in double digits , to name just a few possibilities .
Indeed , except for deflation @-@ ridden Japan , central bankers could meet just about anywhere and see high and rising inflation .
Chinese authorities are so worried by their country &apos;s 7 % inflation they are copying India and imposing price controls on food .
Even the United States had inflation at 4 % last year , though the Federal Reserve is somehow convinced that most people won &apos;t notice .
Many central bankers and economists argue that today &apos;s rising global inflation is just a temporary aberration , driven by soaring prices for food , fuel , and other commodities .
True , prices for many key commodities are up 25 % to 50 % since the start of the year .
But if central bankers think that today &apos;s inflation is simply the product of short @-@ term resource scarcities as opposed to lax monetary policy , they are mistaken .
The fact is that around most of the world , inflation - and eventually inflation expectations - will keep climbing unless central banks start tightening their monetary policies .
The US is now ground zero for global inflation .
Faced with a vicious combination of collapsing housing prices and imploding credit markets , the Fed has been aggressively cutting interest rates to try to stave off a recession .
But even if the Fed does not admit it in its forecasts , the price of this &quot; insurance policy &quot; will almost certainly be higher inflation down the road , and perhaps for several years .
America &apos;s inflation would be contained but for the fact that so many countries , from the Middle East to Asia , effectively tie their currencies to the dollar .
Others , such as Russia and Argentina , do not literally peg to the dollar but nevertheless try to smooth movements .
As a result , whenever the Fed cuts interest rates , it puts pressure on the whole &quot; dollar bloc &quot; to follow suit , lest their currencies appreciate as investors seek higher yields .
Looser US monetary policy has thus set the tempo for inflation in a significant chunk - perhaps as much as 60 % - of the global economy .
But , with most economies in the Middle East and Asia in much stronger shape than the US and inflation already climbing sharply in most emerging @-@ market countries , aggressive monetary stimulus is the last thing they need right now .
The European Central Bank is staying calm for the moment , but it , too , is probably holding back on interest @-@ rate hikes partly out of fear of driving the euro , already at record levels , even higher .
And the ECB worries that if the US recession proves contagious , it may have to turn around and start slashing rates anyway .
So what happens next ?
If the US tips from mild recession into deep recession , the global deflationary implications will cancel out some of the inflationary pressures the world is facing .
Global commodity prices will collapse , and prices for many goods and services will stop rising so quickly as unemployment and excess capacity grow .
Of course , a US recession will also bring further Fed interest @-@ rate cuts , which will exacerbate problems later .
But inflation pressures will be even worse if the US recession remains mild and global growth remains solid .
In that case , inflation could easily rise to 1980 &quot; s ( if not quite 1970 &quot; s ) levels throughout much of the world .
Until now , most investors have thought that they would rather risk high inflation for a couple of years than accept even a short and shallow recession .
But they too easily forget the costs of high inflation , and how difficult it is to squeeze it out of the system .
Maybe they , too , should try holding a few conferences in Zimbabwe , and get a reality check of their own .
An Intelligent War on Terror
Terrorism is an existential threat .
In our European Security Strategy , it was deemed one of the key strategic threats facing the European Union , and to fight it we are using all instruments at our disposal , particularly in the intelligence area .
The first objective of intelligence is to find terrorists , prevent them from acting , and track them after they do attack .
This is the kind of operational intelligence that is best done at the national level .
Many arrests and disruptions of terrorist operations in Europe result from cooperation between EU members &apos; intelligence services .
I was recently asked by journalists whether inter @-@ agency cooperation is sufficient and whether European mechanisms for sharing operational intelligence should be created .
Later that very day , a joint operation resulted in simultaneous arrests in five European countries .
The operation &apos;s success was no accident .
Last year , the Union concluded two Europol agreements , as well as an Extradition and Mutual Legal Assistance Agreement .
Europe &apos;s security services are working closely together within the Counter @-@ Terrorist Group , and Europol &apos;s Counter @-@ Terrorist Task Force has been re @-@ established .
A high @-@ level group on border and transport security is at work , and links between member states &apos; police chiefs are strengthening .
But widespread sharing is not always needed or appropriate .
Member states also need intelligence derived from ongoing casework , not to inform policy , at least not directly , but to disrupt and dismantle networks and prevent attacks .
This information is in many ways more sensitive , and services share it on a &quot; need to know &quot; basis , not for the sake of promoting cooperation .
I see another role for intelligence : to inform political action .
Intelligence services can educate the public , explaining the origins of the alienation that underpins terrorism , how radicalization and recruitment occur , and highlight terrorists &apos; goals , methods , and targeting strategies .
Only when we understand this can we develop appropriate and concrete policies .
For this we need good strategic assessments of intelligence .
The EU &apos;s members have structures to provide this , and with their support and input we are building structures at a Europe @-@ wide level , to bring this information to EU policymakers .
Europol is performing a similar function with material derived from police work , and we are working to ensure synergy between these two efforts .
This is a different level of intelligence , more analytical , where close collaboration adds significant value .
In the aftermath of the Madrid bombings , the EU focused on internal aspects of the fight against terrorism .
But this does not mean that the Union has become introverted . On the contrary , the EU regards international cooperation as fundamental in the fight against terrorism .
Generally , counter @-@ terrorism is very high on our international agenda and is becoming better integrated into the Union &apos;s political dialogue with other countries .
We are better targeting our external assistance and capacity building programs , and we are ready to use our trade and economic muscle , when necessary , by demanding counter @-@ terrorism clauses in bilateral treaties .
There has also been a sea change in transatlantic cooperation between the EU and the US .
Deeds speak louder than words , and deeds on the transatlantic level have been swift and decisive - for example , joint efforts aimed at choking off terrorist financing - even when we had strong divergences over Iraq .
Still , I am not complacent .
To facilitate the extremely complex task of counter @-@ terrorism policymaking in the EU , we now have a Plan of Action , approved by the European Council , which clearly specifies who does what , and by when .
This will also help national parliaments understand EU objectives and facilitate their legislative planning .
I have recently appointed a counter @-@ terrorism coordinator to assist me in following through on the Plan of Action .
We also have a considerable number of new instruments in the area of justice and home affairs .
The European Arrest Warrant is already producing concrete results , and we are moving towards the &quot; free movement of judicial decisions &quot; in the EU , through which judicial decisions - such as arrest and surrender of suspects , confiscation , and freezing of assets - will be mutually recognized .
Furthermore , the European Border Agency will become operational in 2005 .
As requested by the European Council , I am developing , in cooperation with the European Commission , a strategy to shut down terrorist financing .
This is where the real test of cooperation lies , for our success will rely on securing the appropriate interaction and flow of intelligence between the relevant services and the financial and banking communities .
I firmly believe that the military option alone cannot defeat terror .
Judicial , police , and intelligence cooperation should be the focal point for action .
This does not mean that we are not working on how European Security and Defense Policy ( ESDP ) can offer a meaningful contribution .
But ESDP is not at the core of our efforts .
Aside from security and intelligence efforts , we must also work to deny &quot; oxygen &quot; to the terrorists .
This means addressing the factors that contribute to support for and recruitment by terrorist groups .
Regional conflicts cause anger and resentment .
The unresolved Arab @-@ Israeli problem leads to the rise of radicalism and extremism .
There is entirely too much fuel for terrorist propaganda .
The EU will be tough on terrorism .
But it must also be tough on the causes of terrorism .
These are not two fights , but one .
An Iraqi Film Hero in America
NEW YORK - &amp; nbsp ; One of Iraq &apos;s only working filmmakers , Oday Rasheed - whose brilliant film &amp; nbsp ; 2005 Underexposure followed a group of characters in Baghdad after the United States @-@ led invasion &amp; nbsp ; in 2003 , and whose new film Qarantina is now premiering - is in Manhattan .
The glamorous settings in which he is now showing Qarantina - a screening at the Museum of Modern Art , for example , and in the private homes of American directors and stars - could not be further removed from the violence @-@ riddled context of his daily life .
In Baghdad , Rasheed has gained fame - and notoriety - by seeking to inspire a new generation of Iraqi filmmakers and other young artists .
Qarantina is one of only four feature films completed in Iraq in the past 12 years .
A member of a collective called Najeen ( Survivors ) , Rasheed is part of a vanguard of younger artists , writers , and filmmakers whose &amp; nbsp ; work attests to their commitment to art in the midst of crisis .
It is startling to see him walk into a New York living room : his demeanor is quiet and dignified . An air of solemnity envelops him .
He has experienced unthinkable trauma , and is still exposed to it .
&quot; Of seven close friends I had growing up , &quot; he tells me , &quot; five are dead . &quot; One was recently murdered by a gunshot to the head while he was standing in his kitchen .
Some days , he says , &quot; you wake up and the radio or TV reports five car bombings , &quot; leading to a kind of claustrophobia - part of the subject matter of his film .
I noted that he might be experiencing post @-@ traumatic stress from the loss of his friend . &quot; I have had that - have done that already , &quot; he smiled .
Rasheed is just turning 40 , and his life reflects his country &apos;s dramas : part of what has been called a &quot; lost generation &quot; of Iraqi artists and intellectuals , he and his friends were isolated for years by sanctions .
But he also describes the Saddam years as an era in which , while there was no freedom , intellectuals had room to maneuver , as long as they &quot; knew what to leave alone . &quot;
He lived through the US @-@ led invasion during a formative time in his creative life - he was writing for television and engaged in film criticism and commentary while trying to survive bombardment , looting , and chaos .
But he also had to maintain his intellectual integrity .
When the US military sought to showcase the fact that a filmmaker was at work in occupied Iraq , Rasheed was swept to a formal dinner in one of Saddam &apos;s former palaces in the Green Zone , attended by senior US officials and military contractors - an invitation that one would not want to receive , and would not be able to turn down .
Now Rasheed reflects on his country &apos;s turn toward religious extremism : he describes a pre @-@ invasion Iraq in which women were professionals and fairly emancipated , whereas now women wear headscarves under pressure , &quot; for a peaceful life . &quot;
His friend , a young Iraqi actress named Zahra Zubaidi , had to flee the Middle East after having played a rape victim in the Brian de &amp; nbsp ; Palma film Redacted ; she has since emigrated to New York .
Constant &amp; nbsp ; intimidation by religious extremists and political factions is the intellectual &apos;s fate in Iraq today .
And yet Rasheed refuses to be discreet : &quot; Everything I believe , I believe in it , &quot; he says . &quot; I cannot lie or not answer the questions . &quot;
Rasheed is in New York mainly because it is the location of his next film , which &quot; deals with the influence of &amp; nbsp ; the US contractors after the invasion of Iraq , not only on the lives of Iraqis , but also on the life of the US . &quot; As for Iraq today , Rasheed says , &quot; I do not think that Americans are indifferent to what happened and what is happening , but the daily details of cruelty do not give them either the time or the energy to think about larger issues . &quot;
Indeed , Rasheed notes that at every US screening of his film , audiences need to apologize before they begin to relate to Rasheed as a filmmaker rather than as a representative of his country . &quot; Personally , I do not ask anything ; I &apos;m here to clear up some confusion by the medium of film . &quot;
Iraq , ravaged by war and now shaken daily by violence , is known as the most intellectually inclined of the Arab countries .
As Iraqi and other Muslim intellectuals in the region often repeat : &quot; Books are written in Egypt , printed in Lebanon , and read in Iraq . &quot;
Here is hoping that Raheed and his colleagues continue to build up an Iraqi culture that is vibrant and free ; and here is hoping that the relationship of US and international audiences to Rasheed goes from one of expiation to one of engagement with his work .
His embrace of the right to his truth , which is the artist &apos;s task , is nonetheless remarkable , given that he is working in an environment in which part of the creative process involves trying to stay alive .
An Obama Moment for India &apos;s Untouchables
NEW DELHI - Among the many international consequences of Barack Obama &apos;s stunning victory in the United States is worldwide introspection about whether such a breakthrough could happen elsewhere .
Could a person of color win power in other white @-@ majority countries ?
Could a member of a beleaguered minority transcend the circumstances of his birth to lead his or her country ?
While many analysts in a wide variety of nations , especially in Europe , have concluded that such an event could not occur there in the foreseeable future , India is an exception .
Minority politicians have long wielded authority , if not power , in its various high offices .
Indeed , India &apos;s last general election , in 2004 , was won by a woman of Italian heritage and Roman Catholic faith ( Sonia Gandhi ) who made way for a Sikh ( Manmohan Singh ) to be sworn in as Prime Minister by a Muslim ( President Abdul Kalam ) in a country that is 81 % Hindu .
Not only could it happen here , Indians say , it already has .
Such complacency is premature .
The closest Indian analogy to the position of black Americans is that of the Dalits - formerly called &quot; Untouchables , &quot; the outcastes who for millennia suffered humiliating discrimination and oppression .
Like blacks in the US , Dalits account for about 15 % of the population ; they are found disproportionately in low @-@ status , low @-@ income jobs ; their levels of educational attainment are lower than the upper castes ; and they still face daily incidents of discrimination for no reason other than their identity at birth .
Only when a Dalit rules India can the country truly be said to have attained its own &quot; Obama moment . &quot;
In theory , this already has happened : K. R. Narayanan , born into a poor Dalit family , served as India &apos;s president , the highest office in the land , from 1997 to 2002 .
But the Indian Presidency is a largely ceremonial position : real power is vested in the office of prime minister , and no Dalit has come close to holding that post .
Since independence in 1947 , a majority of India &apos;s prime ministers have been Brahmins , the highest Hindu caste .
Yet the next national elections , due before May 2009 , may produce a plausible Dalit contender for the job of prime minister - Kumari Mayawati , the female chief minister of India &apos;s largest state , Uttar Pradesh .
Since 1991 , no Indian governing party has enjoyed a secure parliamentary majority on its own , necessitating multi @-@ party coalition governments .
The current Congress Party @-@ led government of Manmohan Singh comprises 20 parties ; it succeeded a 23 @-@ party coalition headed by the Bharatiya Janata Party &apos;s Atal Bihari Vajpayee .
When the election results are declared next year , no one doubts that the first challenge will be to cobble together another coalition .
Both the Congress and the BJP will seek to make alliances with the dozens of smaller parties likely to be represented in parliament .
But this time they are likely to face a third alternative : Mayawati , whose Bahujan Samaj Party ( BSP ) may command a bloc of at least 50 seats .
She has publicly expressed her disdain for both large national parties ; she would much rather lead a coalition than join one .
And if the electoral numbers break down right , she could conceivably assemble a collection of regional and left @-@ wing parties and stake a claim to rule India .
This is a remarkable development : the idea that a Dalit woman could lead India has been inconceivable for 3,000 years .
But India &apos;s democracy has opened new pathways to empowerment for its underclasses .
The poor and the oppressed may not have much , but they do have the numbers , which is what matters at the ballot box .
Dalits and India &apos;s aboriginals ( listed in the Constitution as &quot; Scheduled Castes and Tribes &quot; ) are entitled to 85 seats in India &apos;s 543 @-@ member parliament that are &quot; reserved &quot; for candidates from their communities .
Mayawati &apos;s shrewd alliances , including with some members of the upper castes , which propelled her to power in Uttar Pradesh , give her party a fighting chance to win a number of other seats as well .
In a coalition @-@ dependent parliamentary system , that could be all she needs to become prime minister .
The daughter of a government clerk , Mayawati studied law and worked as a teacher before being spotted by the BSP &apos;s founder , the late Kanshi Ram , and groomed for political leadership .
Her ascent has been marked by a heavy emphasis on symbolism - her rule in Uttar Pradesh has featured the construction of numerous statues of Dalit leaders , notably herself - and a taste for lavish celebrations .
Mayawati &apos;s weakness for &quot; bling &quot; has been demonstrated at her extravagant birthday parties , which she presides over laden with diamonds , saying ( rather like Evita Peron ) that her luster brings glamour and dignity to her people .
She takes pride in being the Indian politician who pays the highest income taxes - about $ 6 million last year - though the sources of her income are shrouded in controversy .
She has been accused , but not convicted , of corruption several times , with one notable case involving the construction of an elaborate shopping complex near the Taj Mahal , in violation of zoning laws .
Critics argue that Mayawati &apos;s promotion of Dalit welfare seems to start with herself . But there is no denying that her rise to power in India &apos;s largest state , which sends 80 members to parliament , has given her a vital platform to bid for India &apos;s most powerful job .
With her diamonds and her statues , and a reputation for dealing imperiously with her subordinates , she &apos;s clearly no Obama .
But if she succeeds , she will have overcome a far longer legacy of discrimination .
An Old Problem on China &apos;s New Frontier
WARSAW - Had the August 1991 putsch against Mikhail Gorbachev not failed , the riots and death recently seen in Xinjiang could have been taking place in Russia .
Instead of hearing about a crackdown in Urumqi , Xinjiang &apos;s capital , we might be reading about hundreds killed on the streets of Almaty , and columnists would be making comparisons to the bloody crushing of Ukrainian independence demonstrations in Lvov the previous year .
As with China today , there would have been some feeble international condemnation , and some speculation about possible links between Kazakh militants and exile groups , or Islamic fundamentalists .
Experts would remind us that Kazakhstan had never been a country , and that Ukrainian claims to independence are historically dubious .
Substitute Xinjiang for Kazakhstan and Tibet for Ukraine and you get the picture .
But that putsch , thankfully , ended as a farce .
The decaying Soviet regime was unable to crush Russia &apos;s growing democratic movement - it would take Vladimir Putin to do that a decade later .
By opting for the Tiananmen Square massacre in 1989 , the Chinese Communist leadership set their country on a road starkly different from the one on which Russia subsequently embarked .
Though China &apos;s policies have brought about Pinochet @-@ style economic growth , if on the scale of a country that is almost a continent unto itself , they have also ensured that there is in no freedom for anyone , including the Han majority .
This , in turn , means that , while Kazakhstan and Ukraine are independent , Tibet and Xinjiang alternate between phases of violent agitation and bloody repression .
Though Russia today is autocratically governed , the introduction of a Chinese @-@ style dictatorship seems hardly plausible , while GDP per capita was $ 15,800 last year , or almost three times that of China .
Yet a majority of the Chinese population seems to support its &quot; government &apos;s policies , including its brutal suppression of minorities and denial of democratic freedoms .
In fact , the latter seems to be the price paid for the success of the former .
This is not a novel phenomenon .
In 1863 , the Russian democratic émigré thinker Alexander Herzen , commenting on the brutal crushing of the Polish uprising by the Tsarist army , wrote in his publication
When Herzen was writing his words , Moscow was not only busy successfully putting down the Poles , reasserting its rule there for another half @-@ century , but also , together with China , carving up Central Asia , known then as Turkestan .
The eastern part of the region fell under Chinese rule , and was renamed Xinjiang , or New Frontier .
Each time Chinese rule weakened , as in the 1930 &quot; s and 1940 &quot; s , short @-@ lived East Turkestan Republics were established , with Russian support , only to flounder when Russia and China struck new deals .
The leadership of the second East Turkestan Republic was presumably murdered on Stalin &apos;s orders , when the plane carrying it to Beijing for talks allegedly crashed in Soviet airspace .
Since then , East Turkestan has existed solely on paper , as a member of the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization ( UNPO ) , a would @-@ be competitor of the United Nations set up in 1991 .
In Xinjiang itself , the current agitation is more social than nationalist in character , and targets cultural oppression ( Han Chinese by now make up half of the region &apos;s population ) rather than expressing aspirations for independence .
Yet the recent bloodbath there is almost sure to change that , as violence unavoidably breeds radicalization .
In the short and medium term , China &apos;s rule in Xinjiang and Tibet seems secure : the international community will not challenge a Security Council member state .
Only its own citizens could do that , but Herzen &apos;s package deal seems to prevent that : just like the Tibetans , the Uighurs elicit not Han solidarity , but a braying for their blood - somewhat understandable , given that ordinary Han in Lhasa and Urumqi were made to pay with their own for China &apos;s misdeeds .
In the longer term , however , the Chinese authorities have every reason to be worried : Xinjiang will grow to be a problem like Tibet .
Indeed , though the UNPO , to which both belong - alongside Assyria and the Buffalo River Dene Nation - has a vaguely Marx Brothers &quot; air to it ( one expects Freedonia , the mythical country of which Groucho Marx was prime minister , to be on the roster ) , six member states already have left it to join the UN , and Kosovo , now independent if lacking UN recognition , will eventually follow .
Political maps are never carved in stone .
It is therefore safe to assume that not only obscure academics and correspondents , but officials in Beijing as well , are now busy studying the history of the Ghulja uprising and of Osman Batur &apos;s guerillas .
Come to think of it : whatever happened to the Poles , whom Russia so successfully put down in 1863 ?
An Open Letter to Ehud Olmert
Dear Mr. Olmert ,
I am writing you in the hope that you will take time from your busy schedule as Israel &apos;s acting Prime Minister to hear one Palestinian &apos;s hopes .
Even though your ascension to the position of Prime Minister came in an awkward way because of Ariel Sharon &apos;s stroke , I believe that you have an opportunity to be part of a historic reconciliation .
While I am sure you will insist that you are going to follow in the political legacy of Sharon , you have some important advantages with Palestinians that Sharon did not have .
The first advantage is that you &apos;re not burdened with Ariel Sharon &apos;s negative image among Palestinians and Arabs .
Having been the mayor of Jerusalem for 10 years , you know the situation of Palestinians close up .
I believe that the chances for a political breakthrough in our region have never been better .
On the Israeli side , your faith in the political process was demonstrated recently when you and Sharon decided unilaterally to go against your own ideology and take on the powerful settler movement .
The two of you also went against conventional Israeli thinking by breaking away from your Likud party , greatly weakening the ideological stranglehold that Likud &apos;s far @-@ right central committee held on Israeli politics .
The realization that withdrawal from populated areas , and thus an end to holding another people under permanent occupation , was necessary to preserve the Jewish nature of Israel clearly brought the two of you to the center of Israeli thinking .
On a much smaller scale , significant change has been taking place on the Palestinian side as well .
While I believe that the occupation , rather than the reaction to it , is the main cause of our conflict , the unilateral tahdia ( &quot; declared calm &quot; ) decision by Palestinian militant groups has reduced anti @-@ Israeli attacks mightily , which shows that Palestinians also realize the limits of their military actions .
The decision by Hamas to join the political process by participating in the upcoming legislative elections shows that even this hardline Islamic movement has concluded that our conflict needs to be addressed by political rather than military means .
While I understand that you are an Israeli patriot , I believe that much can be done to reduce the tensions between our two peoples , eventually leading to genuine reconciliation and peace .
As a start , priority must be given to face @-@ to @-@ face negotiations .
Sharon and you might have felt that unilateral action was needed in Gaza , but the withdrawal from Gaza could have produced many more benefits for both sides had it been done bilaterally .
Direct talks should concentrate on two parallel tracks .
They should attempt to produce an immediate cessation of violence from both sides while simultaneously focusing on a permanent settlement of our conflict .
Contrary to territorial withdrawal , cessation of violence can be achieved only bilaterally .
Both sides should commit to an end to assassinations , shelling , bombings , and any other form of attacks on the other side &apos;s military targets and citizens .
To be effective , such a cease @-@ fire must contain a monitoring mechanism .
Neutral foreign observers should be asked to be deployed in major hot spots and be asked to identify anyone on either side who violates any of the agreement &apos;s clauses .
Alongside this effort , vigorous negotiations on a permanent settlement should start immediately .
Historically , cease @-@ fires have survived only when they are backed by talks that both parties believe are genuine and serious .
At the same time , the atmosphere among Palestinians and their attitude towards Israel must be improved , so that we can have a political environment that supports negotiations .
Improving the daily conditions of life , particularly increasing Palestinians &quot; freedom of travel both between Gaza and the West Bank and within the West Bank , will also go a long way in helping to create a positive atmosphere .
I truly wish you success in your responsibilities as acting Prime Minister and acting head of Kadima .
Your efforts to move forward towards resolving the Palestinian @-@ Israeli conflict will generate significant improvement in the political atmosphere in the entire Middle East .
But , whatever you do in the next few months to win the forthcoming parliamentary elections , please remember that the support that Kadima has received from the Israeli public derives precisely from the fact that it has taken a moderate centrist position .
So please don &apos;t allow yourself to be drawn into pandering to Israel &apos;s radicals and hawks .
The support that you and your colleagues will get from Israelis and Arabs will depend on the resolve that you show in making serious progress in the peace process .
That process , now as before , must culminate in an independent and democratic Palestine alongside a safe and secure Israel .
An Ugly Peace for Sudan
STANFORD - Well , America is involved at last .
President Barack Obama has dispatched Senator John Kerry to Sudan with a proposal for peace between the country &apos;s North and South .
It &apos;s a giant step toward avoiding the kind of bloodshed that killed more than two million people in Sudan &apos;s previous 20 @-@ year North @-@ South civil war , which ended only in 2005 - and is threatening to erupt once again .
In recent months , Obama has stepped up his own involvement and that of senior figures in his administration in support of a peace strategy for Sudan .
On his behalf , Kerry has delivered a package of proposals designed to break the logjam that has brought the North and South to a dangerous crossroads .
We have written a memo that spells out some of the essential elements of what a grand bargain for peace in Sudan could look like .
If you &apos;re interested in the specifics of a possible peace deal - and in actions that you can take to support it - go to www.sudanactionnow.org.
There is little time to waste .
On January 9 , 2011 , the people of Southern Sudan will vote for independence from the North , taking with them up to three @-@ quarters of the country &apos;s known oil reserves and placing millions of civilians in the direct path of war .
The government in Khartoum ( the capital in the North ) is led by Omar al @-@ Bashir , whose accomplishments , which include overseeing war crimes during the previous North @-@ South war and engineering the atrocities in Darfur , have brought him arrest warrants for war crimes and genocide from the International Criminal Court .
And yet renewed war in Sudan is not inevitable .
A complex but workable peace can be brokered if all interested parties become more deeply involved .
The current moment requires robust diplomacy - the kind that can leave a bad taste in your mouth , but that gets the job done .
We believe that Kerry is a skilled emissary and can help the parties find the compromises necessary for peace .
Any agreement preventing a return to war would necessarily involve the National Congress Party , representing the North , and the Sudan People &apos;s Liberation Movement , representing the South .
But it would also involve the United States , whose post @-@ referendum relationship with the two parties will have enormous influence over whether a deal gets done .
We believe that a grand bargain to lay the foundation for lasting peace between the North and South would oblige the parties to :
· hold the Southern Sudan referendum on time and fully respect and implement the results ;
· reach a mutually satisfactory agreement concerning the territory of Abyei , a key disputed border area ;
· craft a multi @-@ year revenue @-@ sharing arrangement in which the oil wealth of Abyei and key border areas could be divided equitably between the North and South , with a small percentage going to the Arab Misseriya border populations for development purposes ;
· demarcate the uncontested 80 % of the border and refer the remaining 20 % to binding international arbitration ;
· create serious protections for minority groups , with consideration of joint citizenship for certain populations , backed by significant international consequences for attacks on southerners in the North or northerners in the South .
The US role as the invisible third party to the agreement involves a series of incentives offered to the regime in Khartoum to ensure agreement and implementation of a peace deal .
In exchange for action on the North @-@ South and Darfur peace efforts , the US would implement a clear , sequenced , and binding path to normalization of relations .
This would involve - in order - removal of Sudan from the State Sponsors of Terrorism list , exchange of ambassadors , lifting of unilateral sanctions , and support for bilateral and multilateral debt relief , together with other economic measures by international financial institutions .
Conversely , the US must be prepared to lead international efforts to impose severe consequences on any party that plunges the country back into war .
Peace and security in Darfur should be an essential benchmark for normalized relations between the US and Sudan .
The Obama administration should hold firm on this through the coming rounds of negotiation , and should appoint a senior official to help coordinate US policy on Darfur in order to ensure that peace efforts there receive the same level of attention as the North @-@ South efforts .
What is needed now is political will - and not only in the US - to sustain this diplomacy .
The European Union and Sudan &apos;s neighbors - in particular Egypt , Ethiopia , Kenya , and Uganda - will also need to play a robust role .
And China &apos;s diplomacy in Sudan , where it has invested massively in developing the country &apos;s oil resources , will be a test of whether or not it intends to be a responsible stakeholder in Africa and the wider world .
Ensuring that governments work toward peace is where you come in .
Keep the pressure on them .
Support the peace process .
Your voice can prevent a war .
Not guns . Not money .
Just our voices .
The way to peace in Sudan is not simple , but it is achievable .
There are hard choices to be made .
We can make those choices now , or we can persuade ourselves that peace is too hard or too complex , and then look on resignedly from the sidelines as hundreds of thousands of innocent men , women , and children needlessly die .
It &apos;s up to us .
The Uses of Nuclear Ambitions
MADRID - The agreement reached in Geneva in the wee hours of November 24 between Iran and the P5 + 1 ( the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council , plus Germany ) on Iran &apos;s nuclear program proves a crucially important point : the sanctions regime worked .
The interim deal is Iran &apos;s first compromise on its nuclear program in more than a decade , and a diplomatic victory in a field long overshadowed by the looming cloud of military intervention .
Yet the euphoric reaction seen in some quarters is misplaced .
Beyond the ambiguities and limitations of the six @-@ month agreement , the negotiations have clearly exposed Iran &apos;s nuclear @-@ weapons program and , more broadly , its understanding that nuclear weapons remain a geostrategic status symbol .
This points to the difficulty of achieving a comprehensive agreement and the possibility that the international effort could result only in a series of small deals aimed at delaying Iran &apos;s acquisition of a nuclear weapon rather than removing the threat of it altogether .
Beneath the headlines of the historic deal lies a limited and ambiguous agreement .
The joint statement released by European Union High Representative Catherine Ashton and Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif referred to the agreement as &quot; a joint plan of action &quot; that &quot; sets out an approach toward reaching a long @-@ term comprehensive solution . &quot; While it includes a first step that &quot; creates the time and environment needed for a comprehensive solution , &quot; the interim accord is really about confidence @-@ building measures .
Indeed , the obligations that it lists are referred to as &quot; voluntary measures . &quot;
At best , the agreement maintains the current status quo , and in some respects even allows for further development of Iran &apos;s nuclear program .
In this sense , perhaps the most troubling aspect of the interim deal concerns Iran &apos;s yet @-@ to @-@ be @-@ opened Arak plant , which would offer a path to domestic plutonium production and weaponization .
Though the agreement reached in Geneva includes Iran &apos;s pledge not to transfer fuel or heavy water or commission its Arak reactor , there does not appear to be any overarching moratorium on construction at the site .
According to the International Atomic Energy Agency , the Arak plant still lacks several major reactor components , such as control @-@ room equipment and cooling pumps . So , Iran , it seems , will be able to advance its plutonium program during the six @-@ month confidence @-@ building period .
That loophole is all the more troubling in light of French press reports this week concerning Western intelligence on the construction of facilities in Shiraz that may be used to separate plutonium in order to create the fissile material needed for nuclear weapons .
That Iran &apos;s push to acquire the capacity to produce nuclear weapons is partly motivated by security concerns cannot be denied .
Nationalism , however , is a more important factor .
It is not just that all the great powers have nuclear weapons ; the problem , from Iran &apos;s perspective , is that lesser powers - particularly neighboring states such as Pakistan and Israel - have them . The Iranians regard themselves as the heirs to a great and ancient civilization , and their ambition of achieving regional preeminence reflects this .
At the same time , they perceive their country to be marginalized , discriminated against , and the target of aggressive international condemnation .
Nearly 70 years after the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki , the view persists globally that gaining a seat at the grownup table of geopolitics requires nuclear weapons .
Germany is an exception , though hardly a geostrategic heavyweight ; and though Japan knows the horror of nuclear war , important domestic voices there are calling for a change of its non @-@ nuclear status .
This view of nuclear weapons as a shorthand for national greatness is reinforced by the architecture of the non @-@ proliferation regime , which firmly divides states into two camps : nuclear haves and have @-@ nots . That nuclear chauvinism is an attitude reinforced by the &quot; haves &quot; of the Nuclear Non @-@ Proliferation Treaty - China , France , Russia , the United Kingdom , and the United States - which also constitute the P5 .
As long as possessing nuclear weapons remains a state &apos;s clearest way to demonstrate its bona fides as a great power , maintaining the potential to develop such weapons will be too tempting for countries like Iran to forswear .
What is needed is a global shift away from the equation of nuclear weapons with geopolitical greatness . Progress on various efforts to sever this link have not been very encouraging , as was recently demonstrated by the Kremlin &apos;s negative reaction to US President Barack Obama &apos;s proposal that both sides cut their nuclear stockpiles .
Meanwhile , non @-@ P5 nuclear @-@ weapons states continue to expand their arsenals , with Pakistan and India estimated to have nearly tripled their stockpiles during the past decade .
The interim agreement with Iran marks an important juncture .
Above all , it shows that international sanctions can bear fruit , and that a diplomatic way forward - even if proves to be a narrow one - is possible .
We can remain both ambitious and realistic .
But a comprehensive deal with Iran - and the need to preempt future epigones - requires a broader change : a world that not only excludes the offensive use of nuclear weapons but also acknowledges the ultimate unsustainability of their deterrent power .
Insecure Europe
MADRID - For the last five years , Europe has been shaken by financial and economic convulsions that have wreaked havoc on many of its citizens &quot; livelihoods .
The good news is that progress is finally being made in redeveloping the European Union &apos;s economic and monetary architecture , which should help to bring about a return to growth .
But EU leaders &quot; focus on internal problems has caused them largely to neglect external policies , particularly in the area of security .
As 2014 begins , economic insecurity is giving way to worries about the EU &apos;s strategic position .
There were expectations that the European Council &apos;s December meeting would signal a return to a more outward @-@ looking approach , especially on security matters .
Unfortunately , these hopes were quickly dashed .
Indeed , the disparate assortment of initiatives that were agreed at the meeting , though interesting , lack the needed breadth and scope , and will have to be integrated within a weak and outdated strategic framework .
The flawed nature of the current European Security Strategy - drafted in 2003 , with a token revision in 2008 - reflects the circumstances surrounding its conception .
The ESS was developed in the aftermath of the Iraq war , amid heated debate over a proposed European constitution , in a hasty and reactive process hijacked by those who sought to position Europe as a counterweight - or even a rival power - to the United States .
Making matters worse , the geopolitical environment has changed fundamentally in the decade since the ESS was ratified , owing to economic rebalancing toward Asia , the upheavals in the Arab world , the revival of Russian assertiveness , and the rise of isolationist tendencies in the US .
As a result , the ESS does not capture the reality of today &apos;s world - a fact that is obvious from its opening declaration that &quot; Europe has never been so prosperous . &quot;
To be sure , the ESS &apos;s three basic tenets - development assistance , soft power , and effective multilateralism - remain important .
But Europe &apos;s leaders must reconceive these concepts in light of today &apos;s challenges .
In terms of development , Europe must move away from the idea that aid should be used to bolster trade linkages and acknowledge the importance of foreign investment .
In fact , net private capital flows to developing countries now outweigh official development assistance by nearly ten to one worldwide .
As the world &apos;s second @-@ largest source of foreign direct investment , the EU wields considerable influence , with European investors bringing credibility to projects and regions , thereby serving to attract further investment .
For example , Morocco &apos;s Ouarzazate Solar Power Plant and its Drinking Water Efficiency Program were launched with € 37 million ( $ 50.6 million ) from the EU &apos;s Neighborhood Investment Facility ; these projects subsequently gained additional funding totaling more than € 600 million .
The ESS &apos;s emphasis on soft power is also in urgent need of reassessment .
The upsurge of protest across the Arab world raised expectations among Europeans that these countries would , to some extent , emulate Western institutions , values , and norms .
But , while that did not occur , European principles certainly have not lost their allure , as recent protests in Ukraine , triggered by President Viktor Yanukovych &apos;s decision to shun closer ties with Europe , have shown .
Nonetheless , the ESS &apos;s soft @-@ power vision should not be allowed to obscure the security challenges that Europe faces .
With the rise of non @-@ traditional threats , Europeans are increasingly overlooking classical security risks like inter @-@ state warfare , believing that they are no longer relevant - a notion that is reflected in the ESS .
But , as China &apos;s increasingly assertive stance in the South and East China Seas starkly demonstrates , this idea is not only wrong ; it can be very dangerous .
This brings us to the ESS &apos;s third tenet : advancing &quot; the development of a stronger international society , well @-@ functioning international institutions , and a rule @-@ based international order . &quot; In this case , the problem comes down to a lack of commitment , with the EU choosing the convenience of informal and ad hoc groupings over the challenge of reforming key institutions like the United Nations , the International Monetary Fund , and the World Bank , which are essential for effective multilateralism .
Indeed , the EU is among the leading actors in the current &quot; G &quot; fad , which has culminated most recently in the G @-@ 20 .
And , despite being an embodiment of international law , the EU indulges in soft @-@ law approaches , whether at the recent COP @-@ 19 climate @-@ change meeting in Warsaw , or by supporting the &quot; Geneva agreement &quot; on Iran &apos;s nuclear program , which , it is now clear , is nothing more than two aspirational declarations linked by a press release .
In developing its new security strategy , Europe must consider America &apos;s role as an essential component of the geopolitical environment , viewing the US not as a foil , but as a nuanced partner .
Beyond NATO , which remains important even at a low ebb , the proposed Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership offers a potent opportunity to shape a rule @-@ based international order .
The shine may have come off the EU , but the gripping scenes from Kyiv &apos;s Maidan Square are a powerful reminder of the enduring appeal of Europe &apos;s core values .
What the EU needs now is an updated external strategy that capitalizes on this allure to bolster its influence , security , and prosperity , thereby halting its slide toward irrelevance .
America &apos;s Strategic Blindness
MADRID - The recriminations over US spying activities , triggered by the revelations of the former American intelligence contractor Edward J. Snowden , have now reached fever pitch .
Questions abound - about what President Barack Obama knew and when , about the legitimacy of eavesdropping on friendly foreign leaders &quot; conversations , about the future of transatlantic relations , and even about the meaning of the term &quot; ally . &quot;
But the current firestorm , like other recent diplomatic crises for the United States , reflects a more fundamental problem : the lack of strategic vision in American foreign policy .
Until the US is able to establish an overarching , purpose @-@ oriented framework through which it relates to the world , a reactive approach is inevitable , with high @-@ intensity incidents such as we have seen this month continuing to be the norm .
For more than 40 years , the Cold War policy of containment of Soviet influence provided America its strategic framework .
Though US tactics were debated and shifted from administration to administration , the overarching approach remained consistent , because it was broadly supported by Republicans and Democrats alike .
Of course , an overarching national @-@ security strategy provided no guarantee against problems or even major disasters in countries like Vietnam and Nicaragua .
Nonetheless , in hindsight , containment infused an order and organization on US foreign policy that is absent today .
After the fall of the Berlin Wall , the necessity that had been driving containment disappeared .
The US , inebriated by victory , saw in the triumph over the Soviet bloc another sign of its exceptionalism , and found itself taken in by the mirage that its Cold War success was itself a strategy .
What followed was a decade of scattershot foreign policy marked by notable cases of inaction , together with individual initiatives taken largely without reference to a broader doctrine .
Unchallenged in the world &apos;s unipolar moment , the US had the luxury of not knowing its strategic goals .
Shocked by the attacks of September 11 , the US forced a new framework onto its still @-@ unquestioned belief in the inexorable movement of history toward freedom .
Unfortunately , what emerged was a deeply flawed approach , not least because in declaring a &quot; war on terror , &quot; America positioned itself against a tactic , not an entity or an ideology .
Under Obama , the US has begun to depart from this approach .
The problem is that it remains a departure without any meaningful destination .
As in the 1990 &quot; s , the US has no organizing imperative , and the result is the same : a combination of inactivity and incoherent initiatives .
And , at a time of domestic political polarization , the lack of a global strategy denies a potential rallying point around which Democrats and Republicans can unite .
Two decades ago , geopolitical conditions limited blowback from America &apos;s foreign @-@ policy vacuum .
Today , the US remains the world &apos;s essential power , but it is no longer the exclusive power .
It cannot solve problems that directly affect it by acting on its own , though its leadership remains indispensable .
That is all the more true given that the nature of such problems has also changed .
America , like the rest of us , is vulnerable to climate change , pandemics , and terrorism - challenges that require coordinated global solutions .
For the US , however , the utility of multilateralism is purely situational .
Above all , multilateralism is never preferable to a &quot; good &quot; bilateral solution - a view that has reinforced behavior that undermines , rather than strengthens , the capacity for effective international action .
Indeed , always ready to negotiate treaties but rarely prepared to sign - and even less likely to ratify - them , the US remains absent from such key global agreements as the Kyoto Protocol , the Mine Ban Treaty , and the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea .
Its inspired creativity and support in building formal institutions like the United Nations and World Bank has given way to a predilection for weak , informal , and ad hoc groupings , such as the various G @-@ somethings and &quot; coalitions of the willing . &quot;
Establishing effective multilateralism requires an emphasis on rules and institutions that facilitate coordination .
The recent decision by the US to sign the Arms Trade Treaty could be a good start - if only Congress could marshal the bipartisan support needed to ratify it .
But scattered moves in the right direction will not suffice .
What is really needed is a change in vision and mentality - a shift from viewing multilateralism as a tactic to embracing it as a strategic imperative .
The current spying scandal is the product of a rudderless US foreign policy focused on narrowly drawn tactical objectives that exist outside the conceptual funnel of a comprehensive vision .
The result in this case has been damage to the transatlantic relationship , with some in Europe even calling for a halt to the talks on the proposed Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership ( TTIP ) .
Suspending the trade talks would be folly , not just in terms of the regional impact , but also because the TTIP should be an exercise in rule @-@ making that echoes globally .
The current diplomatic crisis , too , is an opportunity to ensure that transatlantic discussions about privacy and surveillance reverberate in a multilateral setting ; seizing it would represent a small but significant contribution to the strategic vision that has been sorely lacking for the last quarter @-@ century .
Europe &apos;s Juncker Revolution
MADRID - Before his appointment as EU Commission President , Jean @-@ Claude Juncker was pilloried as an old @-@ school federalist who would do little to alter the status quo .
But the new structure that he has imposed on the Commission implies a radical overhaul of how things are done in Brussels .
Up to now , a focus on who has been appointed to what post - in particular , the appointment of the relatively inexperienced Federica Mogherini as EU High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy - has overshadowed the Commission &apos;s structural transformation .
But individual commissioners are far less important than the trends that have caused the Commission to shift its priorities from enlargement and the internal market toward energy and monetary union .
One such trend is Europeans &quot; growing skepticism toward integration , exemplified in May &apos;s European Parliament election .
With newer European Union members backsliding - Romania on the rule of law , Bulgaria in corruption , and Hungary on democratic norms under Viktor Orbán &apos;s government - now is the time , or so it seems , to focus on existing members .
Reinforcing this shift is Turkey &apos;s drift toward authoritarianism , which is undermining the viability of its candidacy for EU membership .
As for Ukraine , recent gestures of solidarity , such as the signing of an association agreement , are unlikely to develop into anything substantial in the foreseeable future .
In downgrading EU enlargement as a formal policy priority , the Commission is preparing itself to take other important steps .
The upheaval among Europe &apos;s southern and eastern neighbors may well bring about a long @-@ overdue revamping of the EU &apos;s Neighborhood Policy .
And , in pursuit of other avenues for expanding the EU &apos;s reach , European leaders might reinvigorate the European Economic Area .
Another policy area that has lost its centrality is the internal market - a notable decision , given that it has been the centerpiece of the European project since the Commission was created in 1958 .
The internal market &apos;s four pillars - the free movement of goods , services , capital , and people - have underpinned broader EU measures , in areas like foreign policy and justice and home affairs , and will now be subsumed under new policy labels , from economy and financial affairs to the digital agenda .
This move away from the internal market can be explained partly by member governments &quot; aversion to more EU @-@ level legislation .
Though complaints about the &quot; bloated &quot; acquis communitaire ( the body of EU law ) are often unfounded , the EU legislative process is not without its shortcomings , as recent attempts at harmonization clearly demonstrate .
For example , for the EU @-@ wide statutory audit that was completed in April , the European Parliament agreed to a revised directive and new regulation that should have been directly applicable in all 28 member countries .
But , in more than 20 cases , member states were given discretion over its implementation and interpretation .
The new Commission will attempt to change this by focusing on rule implementation and oversight , rather than creation .
This effort will be coordinated by representatives in seven newly established vice @-@ presidential positions , and spearheaded by the first vice president to have a portfolio focused on &quot; better regulation . &quot;
To be sure , easing regulatory burdens is a longstanding leitmotif of the EU .
Though the last two Commissions , led by José Manuel Barroso , espoused a commitment to rationalizing , clarifying , and compiling rules , little concrete action has been taken .
Juncker &apos;s changes , however , may portend genuine progress on this front , as well as toward monetary and energy union .
Indeed , the new Commission &apos;s structure suggests that Juncker hopes to enhance its role in guiding the European Monetary Union and related policies , control over which largely rested with the European Council and EU member governments ( especially Germany ) during the crisis .
Similarly , a new vice president has been introduced for energy , which has been reframed as &quot; energy union . &quot;
The lack of progress on this front during the last two Commissions was rooted mainly in Germany &apos;s Russian modernization project , which has shaped its approach to energy security .
For its part , France has been reluctant to build an interconnected European grid , owing to its heavy reliance on nuclear energy .
Given Russian behavior in Ukraine , however , EU leaders have been rethinking their approach .
In this context , the Commission &apos;s new structure - not to mention the fact that the new European Council president , former Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk , has long sought an energy union - may well push the policy forward .
Though it is impossible to understand fully the implications of the Commission &apos;s new structure at this early stage , some of its institutional ramifications are already emerging .
Beyond inciting a kind of tug @-@ of @-@ war with the European Council , the Commission &apos;s shift away from lawmaking will alter the European Parliament &apos;s role , which it has forged over the last five years on the back of the Commission &apos;s active legislative agenda .
With little authority to initiate legislation , the Parliament , too , will have no choice but to pivot toward oversight .
Precisely how all of this all plays out in the coming months and years will determine whether the European project progresses or stagnates .
Perhaps observers should be paying a little less attention to the &quot; who &quot; and a bit more to the &quot; what . &quot;
Africa Beyond Ebola
MADRID - Among this summer &apos;s grave global worries , the spread of the Ebola virus has monopolized the discussion of Sub @-@ Saharan Africa and reinvigorated hoary notions of disorder and despair - at a time when a new image of a dynamic Africa was emerging .
In fact , there is still strong reason for optimism about the region &apos;s prospects .
The Ebola outbreak overshadowed three key events affecting the region . On July 1 , a major organizational restructuring at the World Bank Group was implemented .
Two weeks later , the BRICS ( Brazil , Russia , India , China , and South Africa ) announced the establishment of the New Development Bank .
And , in early August , African government and business leaders gathered in Washington , DC , for a summit that could portend transformative private investment in Africa .
Such investment is essential in a world in which net private capital flows to developing countries outstrip official development assistance by a margin of ten to one .
If this is to be a turning point for Africa , rather than another false dawn , this summer must be the start of a prolonged effort to stimulate private @-@ sector engagement .
The reorganization of the World Bank is a central part of a larger effort under its president , Jim Yong Kim , to reposition the Bank as a facilitator vis @-@ a @-@ vis the private sector , rather than a primary provider .
From 2009 to 2013 , new investment commitments by the International Finance Corporation , the World Bank &apos;s private @-@ sector lending arm , have risen 73 % .
Meanwhile , the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency , the Bank &apos;s provider of political risk insurance covering investments in developing countries , has moved to expand its activities , both by broadening the types of projects that it supports and widening existing definitions to allow greater coverage .
July &apos;s restructuring occurs within the context of these broader moves .
In reorganizing the World Bank Group &apos;s central component , the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development , Kim has adopted a management @-@ consulting model that unites expertise with regional coverage .
Seeking to eliminate the bureaucratic &quot; silos &quot; that have isolated regional experts from one another , 14 global practice groups in areas such as energy , water , and education have been established to bring to bear the full force of the World Bank &apos;s considerable knowledge on projects and partnerships .
Just as the World Bank was repositioning itself , the BRICS agreed to establish their own bank .
There are significant outstanding issues about how the New Development Bank will operate , but early indications suggest that infrastructure will be central to its activities , with an emphasis on Africa .
The World Bank estimates that insufficient infrastructure reduces productivity in Africa by approximately 40 % .
The entrance of a new player with initial authorized capital of $ 100 billion - along with the United States &quot; Power Africa program , which has garnered $ 26 billion in commitments since its launch last year , and the World Bank &apos;s new Global Infrastructure Facility - promises to help ease infrastructure financing significantly .
But , as of now , the New Development Bank is little more than a statement of political solidarity , and whether it comes into existence remains to be seen .
Even if it does begin to function , the BRICS lack what gives development banks , and the World Bank in particular , legitimacy and weight : a staff composed mostly of dedicated experts who are among the world &apos;s best .
Finally , the high profile of the US @-@ Africa Leaders Summit , with more than 40 heads of state in attendance , as well as President Barack Obama &apos;s direct involvement , generated buzz about Africa .
US businesses and investors certainly gained more awareness about Africa &apos;s potential and a deeper understanding of the variety of investment climates throughout the continent .
But , though the summit may be called a success , its long @-@ term implications are unclear , particularly given the uncertainty about what will follow .
At the moment , there does not seem to be a plan to institutionalize the summit .
Moreover , the participation of so many heads of state overshadowed that of African business leaders .
The practical connections that US companies will need when deciding whether to invest could have been cultivated on the summit &apos;s margins , or in its aftermath , but were not .
Laying a foundation for future engagement requires ongoing commitment and effort that goes beyond mere publicity .
The same could be said about the World Bank .
There is much work to be done in integrating the new organizational model with existing Bank structures and practice areas .
Even if this transition occurs seamlessly , the Bank faces a serious internal struggle against entrenched bureaucratic interests and a pervasive institutional mindset that is overly risk @-@ averse and fixates on processes rather than outcomes .
In recent years , Africa , once a land of pity , has emerged as a land of opportunity .
If it is to become a land of performance , the goal must be to facilitate investment , both domestic and foreign .
That will demand effort and commitment ; given that a stable international order increasingly depends on a prosperous and growing Africa , it is a goal that the world cannot afford to miss .
Europe &apos;s Iranian Imperative
MADRID - Last month , with the world &apos;s attention fixed on the crisis in Crimea and the search for Malaysian Airlines Flight 370 , the latest round of negotiations between Iran and the P5 + 1 ( the United States , China , France , Russia , and the United Kingdom , plus Germany ) passed quietly in Vienna .
Even with discussions set to continue next week , the talks &quot; outcome remains far from certain - and world leaders cannot afford to become distracted .
This is especially true for Europe , whose unified approach to Iran has been invaluable up to this point .
Indeed , it was the bite of European sanctions that ultimately brought Iran to the negotiating table , and the force of unified European diplomacy facilitated the &quot; joint plan of action , &quot; which set out the terms for reaching a comprehensive long @-@ term agreement within six months .
But now , at the plan &apos;s halfway point , there has been little concrete progress , with last month &apos;s negotiations producing no headway on two key issues being discussed : the acceptable level for uranium enrichment in Iran and the future of the heavy @-@ water reactor at Arak .
The sharp contrast between this lack of achievement and Iran &apos;s recent declarations about reaching a final deal by July raises important questions about Iran &apos;s strategy and goals - questions that negotiators must consider carefully when determining the best approach .
The key to success is the background against which the process plays out .
Iran is a land of contrasts .
On a recent visit organized by the European Council on Foreign Relations ( ECFR ) , the coexistence of entrenched tradition and rapid transformation was starkly apparent .
Central Tehran - ebullient with young people and high @-@ heeled women donning testimonial headscarves and mid @-@ thigh jackets over pants - embodies a thirst for openness .
More than 60 % of Iranians were born after the 1979 Islamic Revolution , and more than 40 % were born after the Iran @-@ Iraq War of the 1980 &quot; s .
For them , the revolution is a part of history , not the main source of their personal values .
The toll taken by years of tough economic sanctions is also apparent .
Despite Iranian officials &quot; best efforts to downplay the sanctions &quot; impact , it is difficult to spin inflation in excess of 30 % and projected GDP growth of just 1 % this year .
The combination of a young population and a crumbling economy is a combustible mix , one that amounts to an existential threat to the regime - and the regime knows it .
In this sense , the imperative to reach a prosperity @-@ enhancing agreement with the international community is greater than ever for Iran &apos;s leadership .
Furthermore , Iran &apos;s negotiating style , like its capital city , can be both fatiguing and confusing .
Just moments after elaborating at length on the Koran &apos;s prohibition of nuclear weapons , an interlocutor would declare that the underground Fordow nuclear facility &apos;s impregnability to airstrikes must be central to any deal .
The reality is that Iran does not envisage giving up its nuclear breakout capacity .
The negotiations are aimed not at eradication , but at lengthening lead @-@ time - specifically , limiting uranium @-@ enrichment levels to 3.5 % , establishing a strong inspections regime , and reaching an agreement on the Arak nuclear facility .
But even this may not happen .
After all , Iranian officials have thus far not demonstrated their commitment to accepting stringent and verifiable checks .
Moreover , Iran has managed to separate the nuclear negotiations from broader , related issues like its ballistic @-@ missile program , its support for groups like Hezbollah , and its domestic human @-@ rights record .
With the US loath to introduce potential spoilers into the mix , there is no chance that any of these issues will be up for discussion .
In this context , EU High Representative Catherine Ashton &apos;s meeting with dissidents during her most recent trip to Tehran was merely a symbolic gesture .
This leaves Iran the opening it needs to place a strategic bet that the Syrian conflict will generate increasing friction between the West and Iran &apos;s regional archrival , Saudi Arabia .
For Iran , a staunch supporter of Syrian President Bashar al @-@ Assad &apos;s regime , a weaker US @-@ Saudi relationship is key to shifting the regional balance of power - especially if it is accompanied by the easing of Western economic sanctions .
To some degree , this hope is reinforced by Iran &apos;s perception of US President Barack Obama as a motivated partner in the nuclear talks .
After all , a long @-@ term agreement would be both a singular foreign @-@ policy achievement for Obama and a boon to his efforts to disentangle the US from the Middle East .
But Iran also recognizes that the clock is ticking .
Obama &apos;s presidency is coming to an end , the Republicans are poised to regain control of the Senate in November &apos;s mid @-@ term election , and Democrats are increasingly reticent to be viewed as &quot; soft on Iran . &quot;
As a result , the US Congress appears to be growing more hostile toward a deal ; indeed , the longer it takes to conclude a final agreement , the more likely Congress is to scupper it .
In this context , Europe has a key role to play .
While Europe &apos;s reputation for foreign @-@ policy &quot; softness &quot; continues to shape Iranian perceptions , the EU &apos;s role in compelling Iran to negotiate underpins the current talks .
Likewise , it was France &apos;s insistence on more stringent controls that initially blocked the agreement in Geneva last November .
A decade ago , Europe disappointed Iran by withdrawing from negotiations , under pressure from the US - a move that some have suggested aided former Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad &apos;s rise to power .
Today , Europe will be critical to driving progress , particularly in the event that the US Congress torpedoes a sensible agreement .
Indeed , on Iran , Europe &apos;s unified approach has enabled it to have a greater impact than on any other significant foreign @-@ policy issue .
This should be regarded as a model for the future and a lesson for the present .
By preserving its unity of purpose and maintaining the pressure and negotiating momentum that it has generated , Europe can demonstrate to Iran , the US , and itself that it has what it takes to be a major global actor .
Forsaken Syria
MADRID - In this year of ubiquitous commemorations , the centennial of Jan Karski &apos;s birth has been largely overlooked .
And yet Karski &apos;s legacy is more important than ever - nowhere more so than in Syria .
As the Geneva II peace process slogs along - leaving cadavers and atrocities to pile up - Karski &apos;s dedication to bringing the plight of Poland &apos;s Jews to the world &apos;s attention during World War II , despite the inertia of governments and publics , embodies exactly what Syria desperately needs .
In 1942 , Karski , a Polish @-@ born diplomat , traveled to the United Kingdom to report on what came to be called the Holocaust .
The next year , he embarked on a mission to the United States to brief President Franklin D. Roosevelt and other dignitaries on the horrors that he had witnessed .
In both cases , he was met with skepticism and apathy .
Indeed , it was only toward the end of the war that action was taken to stop the slaughter .
Although the Holocaust is a category of persecution sui generis , one cannot avoid thinking of Karski in light of the international community &apos;s approach to Syria today .
Expectations for the Geneva talks are so low that trivial matters - such as the fact that President Bashar al @-@ Assad &apos;s negotiators and the opposition are sitting together in the same room ( though not at the same table ) - are being hailed as successes .
Even the agreement to allow women and children to leave blockaded areas of the city of Homs - an anti @-@ Assad stronghold - fell far short of international mediators &quot; vision ( and even this achievement seems to be in doubt ) .
Instead of allowing a United Nations aid convoy to bring humanitarian aid to the area , the government agreed to release women and children on an as @-@ yet @-@ uncertain timeline , while men can leave only after their names had been cleared , raising fears of arrest .
Meanwhile , amid plodding deliberations of incremental steps that are clearly inadequate , Syrians are being displaced , wounded , tortured , and killed in droves .
By any measure , the level of suffering in Syria is shocking .
Although figures do not convey the cruelty by all sides , it has become de rigueur to cite the numbers : more than 100,000 dead , 2.3 million refugees , and four million people internally displaced .
But a year ago , the figures were already dire : 60,000 dead , 700,000 international refugees , and two million internally displaced .
If there were a threshold of misery that would cause the world to say , &quot; Enough is enough , &quot; it surely would have been crossed by now .
The ugly truth is that the world &apos;s response to this crisis has been shaped by geopolitical interests , not the need to put an end to appalling human suffering .
Indeed , it is no secret that the conflict serves as a proxy for larger struggles - between Saudi Arabia and Iran , Saudi Arabia and Qatar , the US and Iran , Russia and the US , Shia and Sunni Muslims , and moderates and extremists - and that resolving it will require significant effort on all of these fronts .
From an American perspective , Syria is not strategically critical .
President Barack Obama &apos;s administration has maintained an intensely inward @-@ looking focus , reinforced by a public wary of foreign engagements .
Nothing short of a drastic change in the conflict &apos;s nature that threatened America &apos;s core interests would lead to direct US involvement .
Guilt , after all , is a poor motivator for international action .
Even the UK and France - the only two countries that were not shy about threatening military action against Assad &apos;s regime - got cold feet when confronted with the possibility of going it alone .
Instead , the world is responding to graphic images of unspeakable brutality - torture by the regime or executions carried out by the opposition - with sterile shows of outrage .
The stream of statements , half @-@ measures , and clumsy initiatives has done little to improve the situation - and , in some instances , has made things worse .
Consider Obama &apos;s call , backed by no action , for Assad to &quot; step aside , &quot; and his repeated promises , dating to early 2012 , to provide non @-@ lethal aid to the Syrian opposition - promises that were finally fulfilled late last year , and then only temporarily .
This gap between rhetoric and action left a vacuum ; Saudi Arabia , Qatar , and private donors subsequently filled it by channeling support to extremist elements of the opposition , strengthening their hand at the expense of those being called moderates .
But the most infamous example of this policy paralysis was Obama &apos;s 2012 declaration that the use of chemical weapons was the &quot; red line &quot; beyond which the US would be forced to intervene .
His ultimate failure to follow through on his proclamation emboldened and , in a way , re @-@ legitimized Assad .
It remains to be seen whether Geneva II will follow this pattern .
The price of the talks has already been high , with all sides having ramped up violence to strengthen their respective positions ahead of the negotiations .
This is to say nothing of the fiasco surrounding the withdrawn invitation to Iran , whose buy @-@ in will be essential for any resolution .
In any case , the incremental nature of the talks belies the situation &apos;s urgency .
Amid the current focus on regime change , a transitional government , and negotiating delegations , there is a real danger that the desperate humanitarian situation will be overlooked .
Here , citizens have a critical role to play .
But , like their leaders , publics everywhere have been reticent to act .
Indeed , opinion polls show that , despite near @-@ universal awareness of the situation in Syria , there is very little public support for intervention .
But handwringing will not help ; we - individuals - must accept real responsibility for ending the tragedy and press our leaders to act .
It has been more than 70 years since Karski presented his report to the world .
In that time , we have created the United Nations , adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , and discussed endlessly governments &quot; &quot; responsibility to protect &quot; their citizens .
Yet , watching the Syrian tragedy develop , one might conclude that nothing has changed .
How many times must we say , &quot; Never again &quot; ?
Anatomy of a Crisis
BERKELEY - Getting out of our current financial mess requires understanding how we got into it in the first place .
The fundamental cause , according to the likes of John McCain , was greed and corruption on Wall Street .
Though not one to deny the existence of such base motives , I would insist that the crisis has its roots in key policy decisions stretching back over decades .
In the United States , there were two key decisions .
The first , in the 1970 &quot; s , deregulated commissions paid to stockbrokers .
The second , in the 1990 &quot; s , removed the Glass @-@ Steagall Act &apos;s restrictions on mixing commercial and investment banking .
In the days of fixed commissions , investment banks could make a comfortable living booking stock trades .
Deregulation meant competition and thinner margins .
Elimination of Glass @-@ Steagall then allowed commercial banks to encroach on the investment banks &quot; other traditional preserves .
In response , investment banks branched into new businesses like originating and distributing complex derivative securities .
They borrowed money and put it to work to sustain their profitability .
This gave rise to the first causes of the crisis : the originate @-@ and @-@ distribute model of securitization and the extensive use of leverage .
It is important to note that these were unintended consequences of basically sensible policy decisions .
Other things being equal , deregulation allowed small investors to trade stocks more cheaply , which made them better off .
But other things were not equal .
In particular , the fact that investment banks , which were propelled into riskier activities by these policy changes , were entirely outside the regulatory net was a recipe for disaster .
Similarly , eliminating Glass @-@ Steagall was fundamentally sensible .
Conglomerates allow financial institutions to diversify their business , and combining with commercial banks allows investment banks to fund their operations using relatively stable deposits instead of fickle money markets .
This model has proven its viability in Europe over a period of centuries , and its advantages are evident in the US even now with Bank of America &apos;s purchase of Merrill Lynch .
But conglomeratization takes time .
In the short run , Merrill , like the other investment banks , was allowed to double up its bets .
It remained entirely outside the purview of the regulators .
As a stand @-@ alone entity , it was then vulnerable to market swings .
A crisis sufficient to threaten the entire financial system was required to precipitate the inevitable conglomeratization .
The other element in the crisis was the set of policies that gave rise to global imbalances .
The Bush administration cut taxes .
The Fed cut interest rates in response to the 2001 recession .
Financial innovation , meanwhile , worked to make credit even cheaper and more widely available .
This , of course , is just the story of subprime mortgages in another guise .
The result was increased US spending and the descent of measured household savings into negative territory .
Of equal importance were the rise of China and the decline of investment in Asia following the 1997 @-@ 1998 financial crisis .
With China saving nearly 50 % of its GNP , all that money had to go somewhere .
Much of it went into US treasuries and the obligations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac .
This propped up the dollar and reduced the cost of borrowing for US households , encouraging them to live beyond their means .
It also created a more buoyant market for the securities of Freddie and Fannie , feeding the originate @-@ and @-@ distribute machine .
Again , these were not outright policy mistakes .
Lifting a billion Chinese out of poverty is arguably the single most important event in our lifetimes .
The fact that the Fed responded quickly prevented the 2001 recession from worsening .
But there were unintended consequences . The failure of US regulators to tighten capital and lending standards when abundant capital inflows combined with loose Fed policies ignited a furious credit boom .
The failure of China to move more quickly to encourage higher domestic spending commensurate with its higher incomes added fuel to the fire .
Now , a bloated financial sector is being forced to retrench .
Some outcomes , like the marriage of Bank of America and Merrill Lynch , are happier than others , like the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers .
But , either way , there will be downsizing .
Foreign central banks are suffering capital losses on their unthinking investments .
As they absorb their losses on US treasury and agency securities , capital flows toward the US will diminish .
The US current @-@ account deficit and the Asian surplus will shrink .
US households will have to start saving again .
The one anomaly is that the dollar has strengthened in recent weeks .
With the US no longer viewed as a supplier of high @-@ quality financial assets , one would expect the dollar to have weakened .
The dollar &apos;s strength reflects the knee @-@ jerk reaction of investors rushing into US treasuries as a safe haven .
It is worth remembering that the same thing happened in August 2007 , when the sub @-@ prime crisis erupted .
But once investors realized the extent of US financial problems , the rush into treasuries subsided , and the dollar resumed its decline .
Now , as investors recall the extent of US financial problems , we will again see the dollar resume its decline .
Emphasizing greed and corruption as causes of the crisis leads to a bleak prognosis .
We are not going to change human nature .
We cannot make investors less greedy .
But an emphasis on policy decisions suggests a more optimistic outlook .
Unintended consequences cannot always be prevented . Policy mistakes may not always be avoidable .
But they at least can be corrected . That , however , requires first looking more deeply into the root causes of the problem .
Anatomy of a Financial Meltdown
NEW YORK - A vicious circle is currently underway in the United States , and its reach could broaden to the global economy .
America &apos;s financial crisis has triggered a severe credit crunch that is making the US recession worse , while the deepening recession is leading to larger losses in financial markets - thus undermining the wider economy .
There is now a serious risk of a systemic meltdown in US financial markets as huge credit and asset bubbles collapse .
The problem is no longer merely sub @-@ prime mortgages , but rather a &quot; sub @-@ prime &quot; financial system .
The housing recession - the worst in US history and worsening every day - will eventually see house prices fall by more than 20 % , with millions of Americans losing their homes .
Delinquencies , defaults , and foreclosures are now spreading from sub @-@ prime to near @-@ prime and prime mortgages .
Thus , total losses on mortgage @-@ related instruments - include exotic credit derivatives such as collateralized debt obligations ( CDOs ) - will add up to more than $ 400 billion .
Moreover , commercial real estate is beginning to follow the downward trend in residential real estate .
After all , who wants to build offices , stores , and shopping centers in the empty ghost towns that litter the American West ?
In addition to the downturn in real estate , a broader bubble in consumer credit is now collapsing : as the US economy slips into recession , defaults on credit cards , auto loans , and student loans will increase sharply .
US consumers are shopped @-@ out , savings @-@ less , and debt @-@ burdened .
With private consumption representing more than 70 % of aggregate US demand , cutbacks in household spending will deepen the recession .
We can also add to these financial risks the massive problems of bond insurers that guaranteed many of the risky securitization products such as CDOs .
A very likely downgrade of these insurers &quot; credit ratings will force banks and financial institutions that hold these risky assets to write them down , adding another $ 150 billion to the financial system &apos;s mounting losses .
Then there is the exposure of banks and other financial institutions to rising losses on loans that financed reckless leveraged buy @-@ outs ( LBOs ) .
With a worsening recession , many LBOs that were loaded with too much debt and not enough equity will fail as firms with lower profits or higher losses become unable to service their loans .
Given all this , the recession will lead to a sharp increase in corporate defaults , which had been very low over the last two years , averaging 0.6 % per year , compared to an historic average of 3.8 % .
During a typical recession , the default rate among corporations may rise to 10 @-@ 15 % , threatening massive losses for those holding risky corporate bonds .
As a result , the market for credit default swaps ( CDS ) ­ - where protection against corporate defaults is bought and sold - may also experience massive losses .
In that case , there will also be a serious risk that some firms that sold protection will go bankrupt , triggering further losses for buyers of protection when their counterparties cannot pay .
On top of all this , there is a shadow financial system of non @-@ bank financial institutions that , like banks , borrow short and liquid and lend to or invest in longer @-@ term and illiquid assets .
This shadow system includes structured investment vehicles ( SIVs ) , conduits , money market funds , hedge funds , and investment banks .
Like banks , all these financial institutions are subject to liquidity or rollover risk - the risk of going belly up if their creditors do not rollover their short @-@ term credit lines .
But , unlike banks , they do not have the safety net implied by central banks &quot; role as lender of last resort .
Now that a recession is underway , US and global stock markets are beginning to fall : in a typical US recession , the S &amp; amp ; P 500 index falls by an average of 28 % as corporate revenues and profits sink .
Losses in stock markets have a double effect : they reduce households &quot; wealth and lead them to spend less ; and they cause massive losses to investors who borrowed to invest in stock , thus triggering margin calls and asset fire sales .
There is thus a broader risk that many leveraged investors in both equity and credit markets will be forced to sell illiquid assets in illiquid markets , leading to a cascading fall in asset prices to below their fundamental values .
The ensuing losses will aggravate the financial turmoil and economic contraction .
Indeed , adding up all these losses in financial markets , the sum will hit a staggering $ 1 trillion .
Tighter credit rationing will then further hamper the ability of households and firms to borrow , spend , invest , and sustain economic growth .
The risk that a systemic financial crisis will drive a more pronounced US and global recession has quickly gone from being a theoretical possibility to becoming an increasingly plausible scenario .
Anatomy of a Revolution Delayed
The ongoing conflict between Iran &apos;s rulers and the Iranian public is the result of a head @-@ on collision between two contradictory forces .
In recent years , public attitudes in Iran have become more liberal .
At the same time , power has shifted from conservative pragmatism toward a much more militant fundamentalism . The call by the most important group of Iran &apos;s clerics for the election results to be thrown out is but the latest sign of the fight back of both the reformist and pragmatic conservative factions .
Thirty years after the Islamic revolution , Iranians are growing demonstrably less religious and more liberal .
Two face @-@ to @-@ face surveys of more than 2,500 Iranian adults , conducted in 2000 and 2005 , clearly show the trend .
The percentage of those who &quot; strongly agree &quot; that democracy is the best form of government increased from 20 % to 31 % .
Similarly , on a number of questions concerning gender equality - including political leadership , equal access to higher education , and wifely obedience - the numbers continued a downward trend .
Those who considered love as the basis for marriage increased from 49 % to 69 % , while those who depended on parental approval fell from 41 % to 24 % .
In 2005 , a much higher percentage than in 2000 defined themselves as &quot; Iranian , above all &quot; rather than &quot; Muslim , above all . &quot;
This trend is not hard to understand .
The imposition of a monolithic religious discourse on society has made liberal values attractive to Iranians .
But , while this was reflected in reformist trends in the country &apos;s wider political life , a movement toward militant fundamentalism took shape within the regime &apos;s power structure .
Reform @-@ minded politicians were partly to blame for this change .
Far from opposing absolutist power as an impediment to religious democracy , they tried to persuade the Supreme Leader , Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , of the value of reform .
But Khamenei had no interest in reform , as he made plain in dismantling the reform movement .
The presidency of Mohammad Khatami , an avowed reformer , who served eight years , beginning in 1997 , convinced the Supreme Leader that his authority would be assured only if the presidency was held by a subservient fundamentalist such as the current president , Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
In this , Khamenei was following the lead of the late Shah , who kept Amir Abbas Hoveyda , a loyal retainer , as prime minister from 1965 until the Shah was overthrown in 1979 .
The problem with the Supreme Leader &apos;s calculation , however , is that Ahmadinejad is a loose cannon .
His populist rhetoric and religious fundamentalism have alienated a large section of conservative @-@ pragmatist clerics and their supporters .
Many members of this group honor the institution of private property , and Ahmadinejad &apos;s talk of redistributing wealth is not to their liking .
More disturbing to them is his apocalyptic conviction regarding the imminent advent of the Hidden Imam , the Mahdi , whose appearance is believed to lead to the destruction of the world and the end of time .
Generally , Ahmadinejad begins his public speeches with prayers for the Mahdi &apos;s immediate return .
For the Shia religious hierarchy , long accustomed to relegating the advent of the Mahdi to a distant future , Ahmadinejad &apos;s insistent millenarianism is troublesome .
They have often dismissed as unorthodox , if not heretical , any claim of personal contact with the Imam or speculation about his arrival .
Several ayatollahs opined that such talk about the Mahdi is unbecoming of a president or , worse , indicative of an unstable leader .
These concerns were reflected in the fact that the Society of Combatant Clergy , a conservative body , was unable to endorse Ahmadinejad &apos;s candidacy .
Defiance of the Supreme Leader by millions of Iranians just a day after he firmly endorsed Ahmadinejad threw the country into a political crisis .
Worldwide broadcasts of the beating and killing of protesters have undermined the regime &apos;s religious credentials .
Seeking a way out of this difficult situation , the Supreme Leader declared that the electoral disputes must be settled in through legal channels , not on the street .
Given his role in justifying electoral fraud , this argument seems like an effort to buy time to clear the streets of demonstrators , put opposition leaders under severe physical and psychological stress , and isolate Mir Hossein Mousavi , the presumed winner of the real vote .
Nonetheless , Khamenei &apos;s invocation of the law echoes the demands of many conservative @-@ pragmatists who lean toward Mousavi , who is not in a position to challenge Khamenei &apos;s authority directly .
Mousavi must carefully continue his legal campaign , without compromising the trust he has gained from the majority of Iranians .
He must stand by his two principal demands : nullification of the election and establishment of an impartial committee to rule on the government &apos;s violations of the electoral law .
Should Mousavi persuade Khamenei to reconsider his position , the Supreme Leader &apos;s hold on power will be shaken .
If Khamenei holds fast , Mousavi cannot gain the presidency , but he will continue to represent the hopes of the majority of Iranians who differ dramatically with their government .
For now , what will happen depends on Mousavi &apos;s perseverance .
Anatomy of Chavez
Hugo Chavez &apos;s almost 8 years in power in Venezuela - which he will seek to extend in presidential elections next month &amp; # 45 ; &amp; # 45 ; seems to defy economic analysis .
Indeed , any and all economic examination of Chavez &apos;s Venezuela confirms Edgar R. Fiedler &apos;s quip that if you &amp; quot ; ask five economists something , you will get five answers ... or six if one of them is a Harvard graduate . &amp; quot ;
Some people see in Chavez an innovative statesman who has seized an almost magical moment - the windfall Venezuela has received from today &apos;s sky high oil prices &amp; # 45 ; &amp; # 45 ; to change the rules of the game in his country .
A few key indicators appear to support this .
Foreign investment has grown recently from $ 1.5 billion ( 2004 ) to $ 2.5 billion ( 2005 ) .
In that two year period , Chavez stepped on the gas for his social reforms - education , health care , etc . - and also in regard to breaking down the country &apos;s excessive concentrations of wealth .
Although over 70 % of national income remains in the hands of just 20 % of the population , Chavez has forced big foreign oil companies to pay much higher royalties and has started expropriating unproductive land and industrial facilities .
With oil prices now six times higher than they were when he came to power , Chavez presided over economic growth of 9 % in 2005 and as much again in the first quarter of 2006 .
Above all , however , he has achieved a 6.3 % effective reduction of poverty , after taking over a country whose vast majority - 80 % - was perched between poverty and squalor .
Seen in this angle , Chavez appears to have real achievements .
But there is another , darker , angle from which to view his presidency .
It is possible to see in Chavez but another Latin American populist sorcerer &apos;s apprentice , one whose political shelf life will expire whenever oil prices begin their inevitable shift backward .
To those who think that this is the case , Chavez is not an innovator but someone who is merely squandering Venezuela &apos;s oil wealth in the same way that governments did following the oil shocks of the 1970 &apos;s .
The notion of specific &amp; quot ; Chavist &amp; quot ; growth can also be challenged .
The highest growth achieved in the Chavez years is lower than Venezuela &apos;s average during the second half of the 1990 &apos;s , when oil was the exclusive domain of the private sector .
Moreover , growth under Chavez seems to reflect an increase in domestic consumption resulting from the flow of petrodollars and nothing more fundamental , as oil remains the economy &apos;s only real engine .
So nothing Chavez has done translates into a fundamental improvement in , or diversification of , Venezuela &apos;s economy .
Private investors appear to understand this , as such investment in Venezuela grew by a mere 3 % between 2000 and 2004 .
Suspiciously , the country &apos;s central bank refuses to publish that figure for 2005 .
Only one out of every ten Venezuelan companies polled states any intention of making middle or long term investments such as renovating existing industrial plants or building new ones .
True , businessmen have tempered their criticisms of Chavez and seem eager to participate in the profit feast brought about by increased consumption .
But they may also be waiting for the first external shock to puncture the Chavez balloon before they pounce .
These two versions of the Chavez years are both distorted &amp; # 45 ; &amp; # 45 ; to a certain degree &amp; # 45 ; &amp; # 45 ; by nostalgia .
Those who see him as successful have the 1960 &apos;s and 1970 &apos;s as their dream fantasy .
Their main arguments are reminiscent the arguments put forward by those who backed the Cuban Revolution .
Those who revile Chavez often do so in the name of the &quot; Washington Consensus , &quot; that mix of capitalism and democracy that was almost hegemonic across the continent in the 1980 &apos;s and 1990 &apos;s .
Thus , Chavez is portrayed as a return to the Latin American populist heresy , a heresy that must be resisted because it affects not only the country with the largest oil reserves outside the Middle East , but also because it may tempt the rest of Latin America down that road .
But history never truly repeats itself .
The years of the biggest transformation demands in Latin America or those of its docility to economic orthodoxy will not come back because we can remember them .
Especially , the view of the Washington Consensus seems irretrievable ; its &amp; quot ; grand tale &amp; quot ; is now beyond the pale in the region &apos;s societies after it did not deliver the promised prosperity .
Yet one thing is clear : Chavez was the first ruler of his generation to recognize the region &apos;s fatigue and disillusion with neo @-@ liberalism , and to propose new rules of the game .
In the end these may not be the rules he envisions today , but neither are they a spent force .
To believe that one can accurately foresee what will become of Chavez and Venezuela brings to mind another warning by Fiedler : &amp; quot ; He who lives by the crystal ball must sooner or later learn to chew glass . &amp; quot ;
Anatomy of Fear
How does your brain form its most significant memories ?
Studies of fear in rats have helped us learn much here .
Although people and rats fear different things , the manner in which the rat and human brain and body respond to danger is similar .
Because fear is at the core of many human pathologies , from panic attacks to posttraumatic stress disorder , breakthroughs in understanding the brain &apos;s fear system may lead to new ways to treat these disorders .
The core of the brain &apos;s fear system is found in a region called the &quot; amygdala . &quot;
This region receives information from all the senses and in turn controls the various networks that inspire the speeding heart , sweaty palms , wrenching stomach , muscle tension and hormonal floods that characterize being afraid .
A rat &apos;s amygdala responds to natural dangers ( rats fear cats without having to learn to do so ) and learns about new dangers ( sounds , sights and smells that occur in anticipation of cats and other threats ) .
It is through studies of the way the brain learns about stimuli , such as the sounds that precede danger , that our systems for learning about fear , and memory as a whole , have been elucidated through rat studies .
There is also evidence that amygdala of reptiles and birds have similar functions .
Studies of humans with damage to the amygdala , due to neurological disease or as a consequence of surgery to control epilepsy , show that our brains also work in this same basic way .
The implication of these findings is that early on ( perhaps since dinosaurs ruled the earth , or even before ) evolution hit upon a way of wiring the brain to produce responses likely to keep an organism alive in dangerous situations .
The solution was so effective that it has not changed much over the ages .
Obviously , this is not the whole story . Once the fear system detects and starts responding to danger , a brain such as the human brain , with its enormous capacity for thinking , reasoning , and musing , begins to assess what is going on and tries to determine what to do .
This is when feelings of fear arise .
But in order to be consciously fearful you have to have a sufficiently complex kind of brain , one aware of its own activities .
While this is undoubtedly true of the human brain , it is not at all clear which ( if any ) other animals have this capacity .
So , in evolutionary terms , the fear system of the brain is very old .
It is likely that it was designed before the brain was capable of experiencing what we humans refer to as &quot; fear &quot; in our own lives .
If true , then the best way to understand how the fear system works is not to chase the elusive brain mechanisms of feelings of fear , but to study the underlying neural systems that evolved as behavioral solutions to problems of survival .
In order to understand feelings , we need to step back from their superficial expression in our conscious experiences and dig deeper into how the brain works when we have these experiences .
A fundamental discovery has been that the brain has multiple memory systems , each devoted to different kinds of memory functions .
For memories of fear arousing experiences , two systems are particularly important .
Take this example : if you return to the scene of a recent accident , you are likely to have a physical reaction that reflects activation of memories stored in the amygdala .
At the same time , you will be reminded of the accident , will remember where you were going , who you were with , and other details .
These are explicit ( conscious ) memories mediated by another system , the &quot; hippocampus . &quot;
In contrast , memories mediated by the amygdala are unconscious .
These are memories in the sense that they cause your body to respond in a particular way as a result of past experiences .
The conscious memory of the past experience and the physiological responses elicited thus reflect the operation of two separate memory systems that operate in parallel .
Only by taking these systems apart in the brain have neuro @-@ scientists been able to figure out that these are different kinds of memory , rather than one memory with multiple forms of expression .
Many of the most common psychiatric disorders that afflict humans are emotional disorders ; many of these are related to the brain &apos;s fear system .
According to America &apos;s Public Health Service , about 50 % of mental problems reported in the US ( other than those related to substance abuse ) are accounted for by anxiety disorders , including phobias , panic attacks , post @-@ traumatic stress disorder , obsessive compulsive disorder , and generalized anxiety .
Research into the brain mechanisms of fear helps us to understand why these emotional conditions are so hard to control .
Neuro @-@ anatomists have shown that the pathways that connect the amygdala with the thinking brain , the neocortex , are not symmetrical - the connections from the cortex to the amygdala are considerably weaker than those from the amygdala to the cortex .
This may explain why , once an emotion is aroused , it is so hard for us to turn it off at will .
The asymmetry of these connections may also help us understand why psychotherapy is often such a difficult and prolonged process , for it relies on imperfect channels of communication between brain systems involved in cognition and emotion .
Studies of the basic biology of the fear system are likely to continue to reveal important information both about where our emotions come from and what goes wrong in emotional disorders .
As we learn more , we may begin to figure out how to better treat - and even prevent - these conditions .
Anatomy of Thatcherism
London - Thirty years ago this month , Margaret Thatcher came to power .
Although precipitated by local conditions , the Thatcher ( or more broadly the Thatcher @-@ Reagan ) revolution became an instantly recognizable global brand for a set of ideas that inspired policies to free markets from government interference .
Three decades later , the world is in a slump , and many people attribute the global crisis to these very ideas .
Indeed , even beyond the political left , the Anglo @-@ American model of capitalism is deemed to have failed .
It is held culpable for the near financial meltdown .
But 30 years of hindsight enable us to judge which elements of the Thatcher revolution should be preserved , and which should be amended in the light of today &apos;s global economic downturn .
Most obviously in need of amendment is the view that minimally managed and regulated markets are both more stable and more dynamic than those subject to extensive government intervention .
The Thatcherite assumption , in other words , was that government failure is far more menacing to prosperity than market failure .
This was always bad history .
The record shows that the period 1950 @-@ 1973 , when government intervention in market economies was at its peacetime height , was uniquely successful economically , with no global recessions and faster rates of GDP growth - and growth of GDP per capita - than in any comparable period before or since .
One can argue that economic performance would have been even better with less government intervention .
But perfect markets are no more available than perfect governments .
All we have are comparisons between what happened at different times .
What these comparisons show is that markets plus government have done better than markets minus government .
Nevertheless , by the 1970 &quot; s the pre @-@ Thatcher political economy was in crisis .
The most notorious symptom of this was the emergence of &quot; stagflation &quot; - simultaneously rising inflation and unemployment .
Something had gone wrong with the system of economic management bequeathed by John Maynard Keynes .
In addition , government spending was on the rise , labor unions were becoming more militant , policies to control pay kept breaking down , and profit expectations were falling .
It seemed to many as though government &apos;s reach had come to exceed its grasp , and that either its grasp had to be strengthened or its reach had to be reduced .
Thatcherism emerged as the most plausible alternative to state socialism .
Nigel Lawson was Thatcher &apos;s second Chancellor of the Exchequer , or finance minister .
Out of the government &apos;s anti @-@ inflationary efforts emerged the &quot; Lawson doctrine , &quot; first stated in 1984 and broadly accepted by governments and central banks ever since . &quot; The conquest of inflation , &quot; Lawson said , &quot; should ... be the objective of macroeconomic policy .
And the creation of conditions conducive to growth and employment should be ... the objective of microeconomic policy . &quot;
This proposition overturned the previous Keynesian orthodoxy that macroeconomic policy should aim at full employment , with the control of inflation left to wage policy .
Yet , despite all the &quot; supply side &quot; reforms introduced by Thatcherite governments , unemployment has been much higher since 1980 than in the 1950 &quot; s and 1960 &quot; s - 7.4 % on average in the United Kingdom , compared to 1.6 % in the earlier decades .
What about inflation targeting ?
Here , too , the record since 1980 has been patchy , despite the huge deflationary pressure exerted by low @-@ wage competition from Asia .
Inflation in 1950 @-@ 1973 and 1980 @-@ 2007 was about the same - just over 3 % - while inflation targeting has failed to prevent a succession of asset bubbles that have brought recessions in their wake .
Nor has Thatcherite policy succeeded in one of its chief aims - to reduce the share of government spending in national income .
The most one can say is that it halted the rise for a time .
Now public spending is on the increase again , and record peacetime deficits of 10 % or more of GDP stretch ahead for years .
In de @-@ regulating financial markets worldwide , the Thatcher @-@ Reagan revolution brought about the corruption of money , without improving on the previous growth of wealth - except for the very wealthy .
The average world citizen would have been 20 % richer had world GDP per capita grown at the same rate between 1980 and 2007 as it did between 1950 and 1973 - and this despite China &apos;s high growth rates in the past 20 years .
Furthermore , in unleashing the power of money , the Thatcherites , for all their moralizing , contributed to the moral decay of the West .
Against these formidable minuses are three pluses .
The first is privatization .
By returning most state @-@ owned industries to private ownership , the Thatcher revolution killed off state socialism .
The British privatization program &apos;s greatest influence was in the former communist states , to which it gave the ideas and techniques needed to dismantle grossly inefficient command economies .
This gain must be preserved in the face of the current clamor to &quot; nationalize &quot; banks .
Thatcherism &apos;s second success was to weaken trade unions .
Set up to protect the weak against the strong , labor unions had become , by the 1970 &quot; s , enemies of economic progress , a massive force of social conservatism .
It was right to encourage a new economy to grow outside these congealed structures .
Finally , Thatcherism put paid to the policy of fixing prices and wages by central diktat or by tripartite &quot; bargains &quot; between governments , employers , and trade unions .
These were the methods of fascism and communism , and they would , in the end , have destroyed not just economic , but political , liberty .
Political pendulums often swing too far .
In rebuilding the shattered post @-@ Thatcherite economy , we should be careful not to revive the failed policies of the past .
I still find fruitful Keynes &apos;s distinction between the agenda and the non @-@ agenda of politics .
As long as central government takes responsibility for maintaining a high and stable level of employment , Keynes thought , most of the rest of economic life can be left free of official interference .
Building a proper division of responsibility between state and market from this insight is today &apos;s main task .
Anatomy of the Party of Power
More than anything else , Vladimir Putin understands power : how to get it ; how to consolidate it .
His predecessor , Boris Yeltsin , knew how to seize power but not how to consolidate it , which partly explains why power seeped away throughout his presidency .
President Putin &apos;s success , however , has bred its own problem : he consolidated power at the center so well that opposition is brewing in Russia &apos;s regions .
Yeltsin &apos;s biggest failing was in not creating a viable , non @-@ ideological party - a &quot; party of power &quot; - to buttress his regime .
He tried to do so in 1995 , but the Chechen War drove Russia &apos;s democrats away from him .
Moreover , his efforts here were amazingly clumsy .
Yeltsin once spoke about his scheme to link two centrists .
With &quot; Ivan Rybkin ( then Duma &apos;s speaker ) , &quot; Yelstin said on TV , &quot; leading the left flank , and Viktor Chernomyrdin ( then prime minister ) leading the right , we will encircle everyone . &quot;
But by linking both parties to his very unpopular self , Yeltsin damaged both .
Perhaps if both wings had united , that single party would have appeared as an unbeatable juggernaut .
Such unity , however , was impossible , for an obvious Russian reason : the faction leaders hated each other too much to get together , even for their own good .
Indeed , Rybkin was told to pretend to be opposed to Yeltsin &apos;s policies , but when he did object , Chernomyrdin summoned Rybkin to his office for &quot; clarifications . &quot;
When businessmen learned about this &quot; dressing down , &quot; they became afraid to finance Rybkin &apos;s party .
In the end , Rybkin went unelected and Chernomyrdin &apos;s &apos; Our Home Is Russia &apos; ( NDR ) came third .
Yeltsin failed to consolidate political support for other reasons as well , the most important being his unwillingness ( or inability ) to forcefully manipulate the media .
Of course , transformation of the presidential administration into a public relations machine began under Yeltsin when Anatoli Chubais directed the 1996 election campaign .
Before that , the Kremlin had little idea about how to manipulate the new media outlets that Russia &apos;s infant democracy had produced .
Today &apos;s Kremlin , however , is full of clever ideas about how to control and intimidate newspapers , radio , and television .
In the 1995 election , Yeltsin would have been happy if the NDR secured 25 % to 30 % of the vote .
Putin is far more ambitious .
He will be displeased if &apos; United Russia &apos; - the &quot; party of power &quot; he has built - wins less than 50 % of the seats in the next Duma .
But are the results of the parliamentary elections due this coming January truly a foregone conclusion ?
Or are surprises in store for Putin ?
Surprises seem likely because Russia &apos;s political dividing line has shifted , but the President &apos;s political strategy hasn &apos;t recognized that fact .
Indeed , he appears set to be waging battles against the communists that are already won .
Putin &apos;s re @-@ consolidation of power within the Kremlin , after much of it escaped to the regions during the Yeltsin years , dramatically shifted Russia &apos;s political dividing line .
In the past , that dividing line separated right and left , but the line at the forthcoming elections will run between the federal center and the regions .
The loss of political power in the regions ( regional governors , for example , were evicted from the Duma &apos;s upper house ) has incited serious discontent that is spilling over into the public sphere .
That discontent will likely gather momentum as elections near , which may be enough to stop the federal authorities from meeting their strategic goal of winning an unchallengeable majority of seats in the new Duma .
Vast administrative resources are being used to secure the desired result .
But Russia &apos;s bureaucracy is no disciplined machine , and the lower reaches of the state &apos;s &apos; vertical &apos; power structure may well ally themselves - quietly - with regional authorities to prevent the center from gaining too many votes .
Regional administrations also possess their own instruments of obstruction , including propaganda outlets in the regional media , as well as the ability to manipulate ballot papers .
Indeed , President Putin &apos;s failure to &quot; reconquer &quot; his home city of St. Petersburg , now controlled by a bitter political opponent of the President , Vladimir Yakovlev , demonstrates the bureaucratic powers that local leaders retain .
So the real issue in the forthcoming Duma elections will be how powerfully regional elites confront Putin .
Their ability to defy the president may be aided by the fact that the Kremlin is failing to recognize the potential of their challenge .
So far , the main target of its campaign is the communists , whom Kremlin political operatives hope to destroy in the way they destroyed Moscow Mayor Yuri Luzhkov and former Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov , head of the Fatherland party , who were the leading non @-@ communist challengers during Putin &apos;s first presidential campaign .
That focus on the battle with the communists may allow other forces to sneak into the Duma by the back door .
The Boris Nemtsov / Sergei Kiriyenko &apos; Union of Right Forces &apos; ( SPS ) is one party that seems certain to benefit in this way .
Indeed , the SPS electorate is growing faster than that of other parties .
In principle , all of Russia &apos;s political elites appear to have - or pretend to have - resigned themselves to a political landscape with Putin alone on the mountaintop and everyone else consigned to the valley below .
The upcoming elections won &apos;t knock the president off that mountain , but his &apos; party of power &apos; is not omnipotent enough to silence the dissenting echoes rising from below .
And Free Flows the Nile
NEW DELHI - For 18 days , during the ebb and flow of protest , it did not seem possible that the end of the Egyptian Revolution would come so suddenly , in a terse announcement that lasted no more than a half @-@ minute : &quot; President Hosni Mubarak has relinquished office .... &quot; With that , amidst roars of victory , an era was ended , reaffirming the old saying that &quot; the graveyards of the world are full of those who considered themselves indispensable to their nations . &quot;
In the days and weeks ahead , there could arise occasions when the news from Cairo is not uplifting , but let us never forget that Egypt has taken a giant step , which in reality is a giant step for all Arabs .
After all , Egypt is the heart , brain , and nerve center of the Arab world .
True , it once spawned the radical Muslim Brotherhood , but it also gave birth to Islamic socialism and anti @-@ colonialism , Arab unity , and now a democratic affirmation of the people &apos;s will .
Pernicious talk that Arabs do not want democracy has been exposed as the big lie it is .
Egypt , in the great Bengali poet Rabindranath Tagore &apos;s memorable words , is the land &quot; where the head is ( now ) held high and the mind is ( now ) without fear ... &quot; The consequences will be vast .
Ancient Arab lands are bestirred .
Decades @-@ old , apparently immovable autocracies are finding their hold on power unhinged ; change is invading their static environs .
Yesterday &apos;s treaties , particularly those with the United States and Israel , will no longer inspire the same type of confidence they have long had as instruments of state policy .
Memory of these 18 days is so crowded that it is difficult to separate one event from another , one phase from the next : the dramatic , the moving , the bizarre , and the unreal from the bathetic .
But the thread that united all , the theme that remained unerringly constant , was the yearning for &quot; change &quot; - immediate , real , and tangible , not a promise or a tantalizing , unreachable mirage .
Will this yearning travel beyond the Nile , as it did from Tunis to Cairo ?
This question haunts other Arab portals of power .
And not just Arab ; globally , foreign policies are being hurriedly - and somewhat confusedly - revised and rewritten .
This is why US policy oscillated so disconcertingly from Secretary of State Hillary Clinton &apos;s &quot; Do not rush the pace or else the pro @-@ democracy movement could well be hijacked &quot; to President Barack Obama &apos;s emphatic call for &quot; change now . &quot;
Of course , a grave question arises about the now @-@ ruling Supreme Council of the Military High Command in Egypt : How can the enforcers of the status quo become the agents of change ?
But , then , military rule is only a temporary measure , or so we reason .
The great Tunisian poet Abul @-@ Qasim Al Shabi has captured poignantly the spirit of Egypt &apos;s saga : &quot; If one day the people want life , then fate will arise ... night fade away , chains broken ... &quot; That , in essence , is what the young in Egypt have done .
Their idiom is current ; their instruments of change are today &apos;s electronic media .
They - and we - are very far from the world that Mubarak , or the great Gamal Abdel Nasser , knew and understood .
The Egyptian revolution now faces the exacting task that confronts all successful revolutions : how to define the future .
Like the Ottoman Empire &apos;s fragmentation in 1922 or Nasser &apos;s overthrow of King Farouk &apos;s regime in 1952 , the current transformation , too , must be shaped .
And how that future is shaped will determine whether or not Mubarak &apos;s end marks the beginning of political transformation throughout the Middle East .
That is the possibility that is shaking governments from Washington to Beijing .
It is not just the reliability of the Suez Canal and oil exports that are now in doubt ; decades of fixed strategic certainties must now be reexamined .
Consider Israel , which has watched the events in Cairo with a degree of worry unfelt since January 1979 , when Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini unseated the Shah of Iran .
That strategic nightmare cost Israel and the US their closest ally in the region , one that was soon transformed into an implacable enemy .
Israel &apos;s two most recent wars - against Hezbollah in Lebanon in 2006 , and against Hamas in Gaza in 2009 - were fought against groups sponsored , supplied , and trained by Iran .
Clearly , Israeli @-@ Palestinian negotiations will also now lie unattended as Israel concentrates on developments in Egypt .
Above all , Israel must wonder if the peace treaty with Egypt will hold , and , if not , how to carry out the massive restructuring of its defense posture that will be required .
But it is not only the fate of Israel that has now shocked US policy , in particular , to its core .
Egypt , after all , has been the cornerstone of America &apos;s balancing act in the Middle East - and the Islamic world - for three decades .
The Egypt @-@ Israel peace treaty has kept Egypt comfortably neutralized , freeing the US to commit its strategic resources elsewhere .
In turn , Egypt , propped up by massive US aid , has secured the region from a larger conflagration , even though the Israel @-@ Palestine conflict has continued to smolder .
Herein lies the core of the dilemma for the US : it wants Egypt &apos;s basic state apparatus to survive , so that the levers of power do not fall into the wrong hands .
This requires the US to be seen as siding with the public &apos;s demand for change , yet to avoid being identified with political immobility .
There is reason to feel reassured by Obama &apos;s reactions .
He termed Mubarak &apos;s departure a display of &quot; the power of human dignity , &quot; adding that &quot; the people of Egypt have spoken , their voices have been heard , and Egypt will never be the same . &quot;
But nothing that Obama , or anyone else , says can answer the question now occupying the attention of senior US officials : Will the coming of popular sovereignty to Egypt inevitably lead to anti @-@ Americanism ?
Ukraine &apos;s Prisoner &apos;s Dilemma
WASHINGTON - The European Union &apos;s most important decision this fall will be whether to sign an Association Agreement with Ukraine at the EU summit in Vilnius on November 28 @-@ 29 .
The issue will turn on whether Ukraine &apos;s President , Viktor Yanukovych , fulfills one vital condition : a full pardon for political prisoner and former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko .
The Association Agreement , which runs to some 1,200 pages , would remove almost all EU tariffs on Ukrainian goods , boosting the country &apos;s long @-@ term GDP by an estimated 12 % .
It would also establish a political , economic , and legal reform plan for the country , supported by roughly 60 state agencies in EU member countries .
Although the Association Agreement does not lead automatically to EU membership , it is an important step in that direction .
Under the Treaty of Rome , Ukraine , as a European country , qualifies as a potential EU member .
But it would have to fulfill the EU &apos;s &quot; Copenhagen criteria , &quot; established in 1993 , which sets out the basic entry standards .
The Copenhagen criteria are met when the candidate country has achieved &quot; stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy , the rule of law , human rights , and respect for , and protection of , minorities &quot; ; can ensure the existence of &quot; a functioning market economy and the capacity to cope with competition and market forces &quot; ; and has sufficient &quot; administrative and institutional capacity &quot; to adopt and enforce EU law and &quot; take on the obligations of membership . &quot;
Ukraine is a long way from achieving this , but signing an Association Agreement would pave the way toward entry talks , while also creating tremendous economic opportunities .
Ukraine &apos;s alternative would be to join a Russian @-@ dominated Customs Union that includes Belarus and Kazakhstan .
Membership would require Ukraine to double import tariffs on EU goods , at an annual cost equivalent to 4 % of GDP ; and it would not even guarantee free trade among its members ( Russia already applies trade sanctions against Belarus and Kazakhstan ) .
The Customs Union thus appears to be little more than a Russian neo @-@ imperialist venture .
Unsurprisingly , Yanukovych has consistently stated his preference for an Association Agreement .
His political future may depend on it .
His advisers , and recent opinion polls , suggest that if he fails to sign a deal , he will lose the March 2015 presidential election .
The electoral math is stark .
While 40 % of Ukrainians , based mainly in Yanukovych &apos;s electoral heartland in the east and south of the country , would prefer to join the Customs Union , 60 % of voters see their future with or in the EU .
Even allowing for widespread electoral fraud ( which would hardly endear him to Brussels ) , Yanukovych would still struggle to win a majority .
It is not just the swing vote that Yanukovych needs to attract .
Ukraine &apos;s powerful oligarchs are also looking West rather than East for business .
Many are fed up with the arbitrary imposition of trade barriers - affecting goods ranging from chocolate to steel pipes - in their former Soviet markets .
EU markets , by contrast , are viewed as being not only bigger , but safer as well .
Meddling from Moscow has certainly focused minds in Kiev .
Russia &apos;s brief trade war in August frightened Yanukovych into pledging to fulfill all 11 of the EU &apos;s legal and political conditions .
These require Ukraine to overhaul its judiciary and law enforcement , and ensure greater adherence to democratic norms .
The parliament currently is considering 15 bills along these lines , all of which have the full support of the main opposition parties .
But the EU &apos;s demand that Yanukovych pardon Tymoshenko , who narrowly lost the 2010 presidential election , may prove harder to satisfy .
Tymoshenko was arrested in August 2011 and , after what was widely seen as a show trial , received a seven @-@ year prison sentence for &quot; abuse of power &quot; ( though she was not accused of benefiting personally ) over a 2009 natural @-@ gas deal with Russia .
An EU @-@ appointed mediation commission that includes former Polish President Alexander Kwasniewski and former European Parliament President Pat Cox has proposed a solution .
At the commission &apos;s request , Yanukovych would pardon Tymoshenko , who would be allowed to travel to Germany for medical reasons .
Tymoshenko has accepted the deal ; Yanukovych has not .
Rather than a pardon , he wants parliament to pass a law allowing Tymoshenko to go to Germany for treatment , but on the condition that she would resume her prison sentence should she return to Ukraine .
The EU says that those terms are unacceptable .
Acquiescing in Tymoshenko &apos;s political imprisonment would negate the very foundations of the legal and democratic standards that the EU purports to represent .
Any subsequent legal reform in Ukraine would appear hollow .
Some argue that the EU should ease its conditions : the case of a single , albeit important , individual should not stand in the way of Ukraine &apos;s future .
But , far from this being a one @-@ off case , the Tymoshenko affair exposes a deeper malaise .
Even now , Yanukovych is attempting to amend tax rules in order to disqualify the popular Vitali Klitschko , a champion boxer and former German resident , from standing for President .
The corruption and lawlessness that characterizes Yanukovych &apos;s Ukraine should spur the EU to hold fast both to the letter and the spirit of its conditions .
Time is not on Yanukovych &apos;s side .
The European Council of Ministers will make its final decision on November 18 .
If Yanukovych has not amnestied Tymoshenko by then , the EU can , as the Polish MEP Jacek Saryusz @-@ Wolski suggests , wait for a Ukrainian president that will uphold EU values .
Yanukovych will be the one blocking Ukraine &apos;s path to the future .
Antarctica &apos;s Point of No Return
POTSDAM - Recent satellite observations have confirmed the accuracy of two independent computer simulations that show that the West Antarctic ice sheet has now entered a state of unstoppable collapse .
The planet has entered a new era of irreversible consequences from climate change .
The only question now is whether we will do enough to prevent similar developments elsewhere .
What the latest findings demonstrate is that crucial parts of the world &apos;s climate system , though massive in size , are so fragile that they can be irremediably disrupted by human activity .
It is inevitable that the warmer the world gets , the greater the risk that other parts of the Antarctic will reach a similar tipping point ; in fact , we now know that the Wilkes Basin in East Antarctica , as big or even bigger than the ice sheet in the West , could be similarly vulnerable .
There are not many human activities whose impact can reasonably be predicted decades , centuries , or even millennia in advance .
The fallout from nuclear waste is one ; humans &quot; contribution to global warming through greenhouse @-@ gas emissions from burning fossil fuels , and its impact on rising sea levels , is another .
Indeed , the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ( IPCC ) report stated , in uncharacteristically strong terms , that the sea level is &quot; virtually certain &quot; to continue to rise in the coming centuries or millennia .
Moreover , the greater our emissions , the higher the seas will rise .
But the recent revelations about Antarctica are different .
Rather than reacting to global warming with gradual and predictable patterns of change , the West Antarctic ice sheet has suddenly &quot; tipped &quot; into a new state .
A relatively small amount of melting beneath the Amundsen Sea &apos;s ice shelf has pushed its grounding line to the top of a sub @-@ glacial hill , from which it is now &quot; rolling down . &quot;
Simply put , one thermal kick was enough to initiate an internal dynamic that will now continue under its own momentum , regardless of any action that humans might take to prevent it .
It is not completely clear whether humans have caused this tipping - though nothing like it has ever occurred during the 11,500 @-@ year Holocene period before humans started interfering with the planet &apos;s energy balance .
But that is not the point .
What is important is that we recognize the existence of gigantic parts of the earth &apos;s climate system - such as West Antarctica &apos;s three @-@ quadrillion @-@ ton ice sheet - that can be tipped when a fractional temperature rise occurs in key locations .
This risk is no longer merely theoretical .
For the first time , findings based on observations and computer simulations all point to the same conclusion : the huge Amundsen Sea sector of West Antarctica has begun an irreversible ice discharge , and nothing can now halt the subsequent drainage of the entire basin .
It has passed the point of no return .
That is why we must now focus on similar topographic conditions elsewhere .
If an &quot; ice plug &quot; near the coast of Wilkes Basin melts or breaks off into icebergs , the basin &apos;s huge quantities of water will drain into the ocean .
Although no one knows precisely what might destabilize the Wilkes Basin , we can be fairly certain that further global warming , caused by greenhouse @-@ gas emissions , will increase the risk .
The fact that sea levels will continue to rise is now clear .
But we can still determine how high and how fast levels rise by controlling the degree of global warming that we cause .
Climate change is caused by mankind , so the good news is that mankind can stop it by cutting greenhouse @-@ gas emissions .
Although West Antarctica &apos;s fate is sealed , we may still be able to prevent the collapse of East Antarctica &apos;s marine ice sheet .
That means deciding - sooner rather than later - which path to follow .
The current path risks further destabilization in Antarctica ; choosing the alternative path of a new energy system for the planet is our last best hope .
The Humanities Crisis
NEW YORK - A striking symmetry is emerging in debates about the future of higher education around the world .
On the one hand , there is growing concern that the United States and many European countries are failing to prepare enough university graduates in the fields driving the twenty @-@ first century &quot; knowledge economy , &quot; such as engineering and information technology .
This fear has led to the narrowing of the concept of education to mean the acquisition of practical skills .
On the other hand , the worry in some parts of Asia is that young people entering the work force with strong technical training lack sufficient experience &quot; thinking outside the box . &quot;
This fear is manifesting itself in an incipient effort to expand education to include the cultivation of feeling and imagination .
Both movements are rooted in economic concerns .
In the US , where most undergraduates bear at least part of the cost of their university education , political pressure is mounting to provide incentives like tuition discounts or loan forgiveness to students of science , technology , engineering , or mathematics ( the so @-@ called STEM fields ) .
Cost @-@ cutting measures , such as compressing traditional four @-@ year degree programs into three years - thereby reducing or eliminating elective courses in &quot; impractical &quot; subjects like literature , philosophy , and fine arts - are also being discussed .
Meanwhile , in Hong Kong , Singapore , and China , there are calls for extending university programs so that students can obtain a broad , liberal education , in the hope that graduates will be more inclined to experiment and innovate .
Hong Kong University , for example , has extended its undergraduate programs from three years to four .
But such a narrow , economics @-@ based view fails to account for the larger questions of value that societies worldwide are facing .
To be sure , progress in any field , from commerce and communications to health and environmental science , will become increasingly dependent on technological innovation , and thus on the high @-@ order skills - acquired through intensive technical training - that drive it .
It is also true , however , that such training does not provide an adequate foundation for addressing the more abstract , but profoundly important , questions that ultimately must guide global policy and decision @-@ making .
For example :
· How can the imperative of economic development be reconciled with the need to limit climate change ?
· What does national sovereignty mean in a world where diseases , pollutants , and terrorists cross national borders at will ?
· Are there universal human rights that transcend conflicting claims of particular cultural traditions ?
· How should limited resources be distributed in order to provide opportunity and hope to young people , while treating the elderly with dignity and respect ?
· What are a country &apos;s obligations to refugees fleeing from persecution , poverty , or strife elsewhere ?
· How should we balance individual liberty and collective security ?
In answering such questions , advances in science and technology ( for example , new methods of energy production , surveillance , or online learning ) will have a key role to play .
But moral and ethical questions never yield fully to technical solutions ; they also require an understanding of humanity &apos;s social and cultural heritage .
Science can help us to attain the life we want , but it cannot teach us what kind of life is worth wanting .
In short , each side in the current education debate is half right .
As human affairs become increasingly complex and morally exigent , future generations will need both scientific and humanistic learning - and they will need them more than ever .
Fortunately , promising new models for making education more coherent and capacious are emerging .
Yale University and the National University of Singapore have worked together to establish Yale @-@ NUS , Singapore &apos;s first liberal arts college .
Led by a literary scholar and an astronomer , this new residential college aims to break down interdisciplinary boundaries and enable students to learn from one another .
Likewise , Quest University in Canada encourages students to bring both scientific and humanistic knowledge to bear on today &apos;s most pressing problems .
Similar efforts have been underway for years in the US .
For example , North Carolina State University &apos;s Benjamin Franklin Scholars program - a collaboration between the College of Engineering and the College of Humanities and Social Sciences - aims &quot; to produce well @-@ rounded professionals who are analytical problem @-@ solvers , ethical decision @-@ makers , and effective communicators . &quot;
Unfortunately , such programs largely lack the visibility and influence needed to shape educational reform .
It is time to abandon the &quot; either / or &quot; discourse that pits science against humanities - which the British chemist and novelist C.P. Snow identified more than a half @-@ century ago as an obstacle to human progress .
It is time to seek out best practices that bridge this putative divide , and scale them up .
In the important work of adapting educational institutions for the future , we must not lose sight of their core mission as articulated in the past .
No one has expressed that mission better than Benjamin Franklin , a man of letters and a scientific innovator , who defined education as the quest for &quot; true merit . &quot;
&quot; True merit , &quot; Franklin wrote , consists in &quot; an inclination joined with an ability to serve mankind , one &apos;s country , friends , and family ; which ability is ... to be acquired or greatly increased by true learning ; and should , indeed , be the great aim and end of all learning . &quot; This is an aspiration that should be renewed for every generation .
King Coal &apos;s Climate Challenge
WASHINGTON , DC - Coal is emerging as a major topic of conversation at the United Nations climate @-@ change negotiations currently taking place in Warsaw - and rightly so .
Indeed , it is a discussion that the world needs to have .
The latest findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change conclude that we are quickly using up our carbon &quot; budget &quot; - the amount of carbon that we can afford to emit while still having a good chance of limiting global warming to 2º Celsius .
According to the IPCC , keeping the global temperature increase from pre @-@ industrial levels below this threshold - the recognized tipping point beyond which climate change is likely to get seriously out of control - requires that the world emit only about 1,000 gigatonnes of carbon ( GtC ) .
More than half of this amount was already emitted by 2011 .
Unless we shift away from carbon @-@ intensive behavior , the remaining budget will run out in roughly three decades .
When it comes to tolerable CO2 emissions , coal is the budget buster .
Just this week , a group of 27 prominent scientists , representing all major continents , issued a joint statement that explains that burning all known fossil @-@ fuel reserves would produce about 3,800 gigatonnes of CO2 , or 1,053 GtC , with coal alone accounting for more than half .
Simply put , if the world burns its known coal reserves using current technologies , it is likely to push global temperature rise far beyond 2ºC .
Many governments and financial institutions recognize this .
In recent months , the World Bank , the European Investment Bank , and the United States Export @-@ Import Bank have introduced policies that restrict financing of new coal @-@ fired power plants unless they can capture and store their CO2 emissions .
Five Nordic countries have joined the US Treasury in ending public financing of new coal @-@ fired power plants overseas , and others may soon follow suit .
And this fall , the US Environmental Protection Agency proposed emissions standards for new power plants that would rule out conventional coal power - an important step that would cut carbon pollution and drive innovation .
Likewise , China , concerned about the serious health costs linked to burning coal , is prohibiting new coal capacity in three coastal provinces under its newly adopted action plan on air pollution .
The Chinese authorities have also introduced policies to reduce the proportion of coal in the country &apos;s overall energy mix .
Against this backdrop , the World Coal Association ( WCA ) is meeting this week , also in Warsaw - in fact , just across the river from where negotiators are trying to forge the building blocks of a global climate agreement by 2015 .
The WCA is calling for the use of &quot; high @-@ efficiency , low @-@ emissions coal @-@ combustion technologies &quot; to lower greenhouse @-@ gas emissions from coal @-@ fired power plants around the world .
But this approach would still consume too much of the CO2 budget .
Even the most modern and advanced conventional coal @-@ fired power plants emit over 15 times more CO2 per unit of electricity than renewable energy systems , and more than twice the amount of efficient gas @-@ fired power stations .
And yet coal power is still going strong globally .
The World Resources Institute estimates that there are close to 1,200 proposed coal @-@ fired power projects around the world , with a total installed capacity of more than 1,400 gigawatts .
If built , the world would commit a large share of the remaining carbon budget to high @-@ carbon infrastructure with a lifespan of 40 @-@ 50 years .
According to the International Energy Agency , the current trend in coal use is in line with a scenario that would lead to a 6ºC temperature rise .
This is a future that would radically and irreversibly change life on earth as we know it .
This is why the OECD Secretary General has suggested that it is time for a moratorium on the construction of conventional coal @-@ fired power plants .
Governments have far more cost @-@ effective electricity @-@ generation technologies at their disposal .
Renewable energies like solar and wind are already competitive with fossil fuels in many parts of the world , and they can be scaled up rapidly .
Moreover , most economic models do not account for the externalities related to coal and carbon pollution .
For example , a recent report by Trucost estimates that coal @-@ fired power generation worldwide may be responsible for around $ 1 trillion of damage due to climate change and air pollution .
Many coal @-@ fired power plants would be uncompetitive if they were required to internalize these costs .
Of course , coal continues to offer millions of people a reliable source of electricity - and the transition to low @-@ carbon technologies will not happen overnight .
We need to expand access to these technologies rapidly , while helping people whose livelihoods depend on the coal industry .
While we need to be passionate about climate change , we must also be pragmatic about how we address it .
But so must the coal industry .
Participants at the WCA meeting this week should commit to additional measures that will help ensure that emissions are kept within safe limits .
A moratorium on conventional coal plants would be a smart place to start .
That would help to show the world that the coal industry truly understands the scientific implications of current energy @-@ use patterns , and that it is willing to assume more responsibility for combating climate change .
We need people on both sides of the Vistula River to do their part to build a fair and ambitious universal climate agreement by 2015 .
Let &apos;s roll up our sleeves together and plot a viable pathway to a safe and effective low @-@ carbon economy .
PISA &apos;s Promise
PARIS - By assessing the capabilities and knowledge of students in the highest @-@ performing and most rapidly improving education systems , the OECD &apos;s Program for International Student Assessment provides valuable options for reform and information on how to achieve it .
PISA brings together policymakers , educators , and researchers from around the world to discuss what knowledge students need to become successful and responsible citizens in today &apos;s world , and how to develop more effective , inclusive education systems .
Some claim that the PISA results are based on too wide a range of factors to be relevant , while others point out the challenges inherent in testing students in various languages and with different cultural backgrounds .
Of course , comparing education across countries is not easy , but PISA remains the most useful tool yet developed for policymakers attempting to improve their national education systems .
Before PISA , many governments claimed that they oversaw the world &apos;s most successful education systems , and insisted that they had already taken the steps needed to address any shortcomings .
By exposing weaknesses in a particular country &apos;s system , PISA assessments help to ensure that policymakers recognize - and , it is hoped , address - remaining deficiencies .
The sense of accountability that PISA fosters among governments and education ministers has helped to spur them into action .
They increasingly turn to one another to learn how to apply innovations in curricula , pedagogy , and digital resources ; how to offer personalized learning experiences that maximize every student &apos;s chances of success ; and how to cope with diversity in the classroom .
The OECD established PISA as a global assessment , because in today &apos;s globalized world students must be able to collaborate with people from diverse backgrounds and appreciate different ideas , perspectives , and values .
To give students the best possible chance to succeed , education must prepare them to handle issues that transcend national boundaries .
But PISA &apos;s most important outcomes lie at the national level , because it inspires innovation and broadens educational perspectives within countries .
Education systems as diverse as those in Finland , Japan , China , and Canada - which seldom registered on policymakers &quot; radars before - have become global reference points for excellence in education , helping other countries to design effective reforms .
When Brazil emerged as the lowest @-@ performing education system in the first PISA assessment , released in 2000 , many people rightly questioned the fairness of comparing an emerging economy to advanced countries like Finland and Japan .
But Brazil rose to the challenge , making massive investments in improving the quality of teaching .
The country now boasts one of the world &apos;s most rapidly improving education systems .
Germany also featured in PISA 2000 , recording below @-@ average performance and large social inequalities in education - an outcome that stunned Germans and initiated a months @-@ long public debate .
Spurred into action , the government launched initiatives to support disadvantaged and immigrant students , and made the notion of early childhood education a driving force in German education policy .
Today , PISA reports confirm that the quality and fairness of Germany &apos;s education system have improved considerably .
Even in the world &apos;s best @-@ performing education systems , PISA helps to pinpoint areas for improvement .
For example , PISA assessments have revealed that , while Japanese students excel at reproducing what they have learned , they often struggle when asked to extrapolate from that knowledge and apply it creatively .
The effort that this has inspired to create more innovative learning environments was apparent last April , during a visit to the Tohoku schools destroyed by the 2011 tsunami .
This experience offers yet another lesson : even in cases where social and cultural factors seem to be the main force shaping a country &apos;s education style , improvements are possible .
Countries like Japan do not have to change their cultures to address their educational shortcomings ; they simply have to adjust their policies and practices .
Creating a global platform for collaboration in education research and innovation has been the PISA initiative &apos;s aspiration from its conception in the late 1990s .
Since then , policymakers , researchers , and experts have built the world &apos;s largest professional network dedicated to the development of robust , reliable , and internationally comparable information on student learning outcomes .
At the same time , PISA measures students &quot; social and emotional skills and attitudes toward learning , as well as educational equity and parental support - all of which provides indispensable context for understanding scores on international assessments .
Of course , assessments do not cover every important skill or attitude .
But there is convincing evidence that the knowledge and skills that the PISA system assesses are essential to students &quot; future success , and the OECD works continuously to broaden the range of cognitive and social skills that PISA measures .
PISA has already prompted important advances in education worldwide .
The OECD will continue to work with the 80 participating countries to develop the program further , so that it can continue to help policymakers and educators design and implement better education policies - and give their citizens access to the tools that they need to build better lives .
In Defense of Angela Merkel
PARIS - The recent cover of Der Spiegel showing German Chancellor Angela Merkel in front of the Acropolis surrounded by Nazi officers serves an important purpose : it finally poses , in a way that cannot be evaded , the question of Germanophobia in Europe .
The abuse of Germany has dragged on for quite some time .
Demonstrations in Cyprus in March 2013 included banners bearing caricatures of Merkel done up as Adolf Hitler .
In Valencia at around the same time , on the occasion of the annual Fallas celebration , there was Merkel as an evil headmistress delivering to the head of the Spanish government and his ministers &quot; The Ten Commandments of Angela the Exterminator . &quot;
She ended up being burned in effigy in the flames of the bonfires of St. Joseph .
Two months later , in Portugal , similar parades featured the same Hitlerized Merkel caricatures , borne by howling demonstrators dressed in mourning clothes and decrying the German leader &apos;s &quot; policy of massacring the poor . &quot;
And , naturally , there was Greece , where the phenomenon reached its apogee during the near @-@ riots of October 2012 , in which the world was treated to the spectacle of Nazi and German flags flown together - and then burned - together before the Acropolis in scenes that presaged the Der Spiegel cover .
In Italy , the right @-@ wing daily newspaper Il Giornale had no scruples about devoting its headline for August 3 , 2012 , to the emergence of the &quot; Fourth Reich . &quot;
Likewise , conspiracy websites in the countries of northern Europe claim that Germany &apos;s eagerness to support Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko against Russian President Vladimir Putin is a reenactment of Hitler &apos;s subjugation of Ukraine .
Then there is France , where the game seems to be to see who can come out on top in populist denunciations of the new and detestable &quot; German empire . &quot;
From the extreme right , National Front leader Marine Le Pen chides Merkel for the &quot; suffering &quot; that she is imposing on the peoples of Europe .
From the opposite extreme , we have the Left Party &apos;s Jean @-@ Luc Mélenchon thundering against Merkel &apos;s &quot; austerity &quot; policy and inviting her to &quot; shut up . &quot;
The problem with this Germanophobia is not simply that it is stupid , or that it is yet another symptom of the decomposition , before our eyes , of the noble European project of integration and ever @-@ closer union .
No , the problem with today &apos;s Germanophobia is that , contrary to what the sorcerer &apos;s apprentices who stoke it would have us believe , their behavior is not a sign of their opposition to the true fascism that lies on the horizon , but rather of their allegiance - and even contribution - to it .
Why ?
There are several reasons .
For starters , to oppose Germany &apos;s social , economic , and foreign policies by equating Merkel with Hitler is to banalize Hitler .
However legitimate disagreement with those policies may be , Germany is one of the continent &apos;s most scrupulous and exemplary democracies .
To say that it resembles in any way the Nazi regime - which in Europe still stands for the destruction of democracy ( indeed , civilization itself ) - is to exonerate that regime , and to reassure and encourage today &apos;s neo @-@ fascists , allowing them , whether intentionally or not , to reenter the public debate .
What is more ( and this is key ) , those keenest to discredit Merkel just happen to be the same people who do not hesitate to waltz with Viennese neo @-@ Nazis or to form an alliance , as in Athens , with the leaders of a genuinely extremist party .
All of the clamor raised around a Germany that has supposedly &quot; reunited with its demons &quot; masks the voice of fascistic parties - from Greece &apos;s Golden Dawn to Hungary &apos;s Jobbik , Slovakia &apos;s SNS , Belgium &apos;s Vlaams Belang , and Bulgaria &apos;s Ataka - that are in the process of establishing themselves in Europe .
It should also be noted that Merkel is a woman , and that hatred for women - the disdain in which they , right alongside the Jews , were regarded by the racist theoreticians of the 1920s and 1930s - has been an essential dimension of every expression of fascism .
Likewise , the slogans slung about in Valencia in October 2012 - with demonstrators urged to chant at the chancellor &apos;s effigy , &quot; You will love money above all else &quot; and &quot; You will honor the banks and the Bank &quot; - had the unmistakably foul odor of the old mantras about &quot; the golden calf &quot; and the &quot; cosmopolitan plutocracy . &quot;
People have finally come to understand that anti @-@ Americanism , born on the extreme right and fed , in Germany , for example , by the philosophy of Martin Heidegger and his acolytes , is a fixture of fascism .
It is now time for us to understand that the same is true of Germanophobia .
In France , it appeared with the French anti @-@ Semitic novelist and activist Maurice Barrès , who saw in the philosophy of Immanuel Kant a vehicle for the &quot; Jewification &quot; of European minds .
It triumphed with Charles Maurras &quot; Action Française and its protracted war with &quot; Jewish and Germanic abstractions . &quot;
And it culminated with the red @-@ brown cells that , even today , on sites that I prefer not to mention , offer &quot; grub &quot; and a &quot; hideout &quot; for persons willing to &quot; bump off &quot; the &quot; bosses &quot; on the chancellor &apos;s &quot; payroll . &quot;
The history of ideas has its logic , reason , and folly , its unconscious and its trajectory .
It is both futile and dangerous to deny any of them .
That is why , today , it is critically important , in the face of a dark force that is rising , swelling , and unfurling in Europe , to defend Angela Merkel .
Angela Merkel Meets the World
At long last , Angela Merkel is Germany &apos;s new - and first woman - Chancellor .
Although continuity will remain the hallmark of foreign policy , Germany &apos;s international engagement under Merkel will sound and feel different from that under Gerhard Schroeder &apos;s leadership .
Schroeder came to power seven years ago representing a new generation whose formative experience was not the Cold War , European integration , and transatlantic friendship , but German unification and the restoration of national sovereignty .
For him and the team that took over after Helmut Kohl &apos;s 16 @-@ year reign , Germany had become a normal country , no different from other European heavyweights like France or Britain .
Indeed , one of Schroeder &apos;s first major foreign @-@ policy experiences was the EU summit of 1999 , where the leaders of France and Britain played rough with the newcomer from Berlin .
The lesson that Schroeder drew was to insist that Germany could no longer be taken for granted and would demand a role commensurate to its size and weight .
Self @-@ assertion became the watchword of German foreign policy .
Thus , when Schroeder claimed special circumstances for Germany &apos;s failure to meet the budgetary ceilings of the European Union &apos;s Stability and Growth Pact , he seemed to be arguing that the restrictions should apply only to smaller countries , not to the big players .
When he rightly opposed America &apos;s war against Iraq , the pride of standing up to the world &apos;s only superpower was palpable .
When he established a close personal and political relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin , he signaled to the world - and to the EU &apos;s sensitive new Eastern European members - that Germany &apos;s foreign policy would no longer be constrained by the past .
In fairness , it should be acknowledged that it was under Schroeder that Germany shed hesitations to deploy soldiers abroad .
His support for international crisis missions in Kosovo , Bosnia , or Afghanistan required considerable political courage and made Germany one of the major contributors to international stability efforts .
To have removed the issue from domestic ideological controversy ranks as a major achievement of Schroeder &apos;s tenure .
But it was also meant to convey that Germany had grown up into a proper international power .
With Merkel , the substance of Germany &apos;s foreign policy will change little , but the assertive style will be muted .
American leaders will welcome her election as proof that the estrangement in bilateral relations is over . But that alienation already largely ended earlier this year , when the Bush administration realized that allies are good to have and that Germany is an important one .
Merkel will reintroduce the warmth that has been missing under Schroeder , but she will not become America &apos;s yes @-@ woman .
Nor will she abandon special relations with Russia , to which every German chancellor since Adenauer has attached major importance .
But she has already made clear that Germany &apos;s neighbors to the East will have no reason not feel bypassed .
She may even want to confirm that message by making her first official trip abroad not to Paris but to Warsaw or Vilnius .
On the European project , she is as committed to integration as her predecessors have been .
She will continue to emphasize close relations with France because there is no alternative ; Britain , absent from the euro zone and the Schengen border regime , remains the odd man @-@ in of the EU .
But there will be no new initiatives on integration until leaders in the countries that rejected the Constitutional Treaty are ready for a new try .
Then Merkel will be in a key position to add weight to a new effort for moving the EU forward .
She will continue to favor the eventual admission of the Balkan states , but she has left no doubt of her opposition to full membership for Turkey , which is the major substantive change from the Schroeder era ( although her government will not block the start of negotiations in early October ) .
In fact , there is very little Merkel has to do after her election to make her mark on foreign policy ; the visible change of style will suffice , at least at first .
In any case , she will have her hands full pushing through the economic reforms for which she will be elected and which are her top priority .
There are indications that Germany is finally emerging from years of economic stagnation , not least thanks to the reforms started under Schroeder .
At home , Merkel can hope to reap the rewards .
Abroad , Merkel has no need to demonstrate that Germany is a big country in Europe ; her partners are fully aware of this .
But it is also more than just a normal country : Germany remains central to holding together the two international institutions that will continue to assure its well @-@ being , the European Union and the Atlantic alliance .
There are some indications that Merkel is more aware of this then Schroeder was .
One can only hope that this recognition will serve as her guidepost when tough decisions must be made and changes in style alone will not be enough .
Angela Merkel &apos;s Vision Thing
CAMBRIDGE - As Europe struggles to save the euro , the chorus of complaints about weak leadership in the world &apos;s major economies grows louder .
Many have singled out German Chancellor Angela Merkel for failing to promote a vision of Europe similar to that of her predecessor and mentor , Helmut Kohl .
Are the critics right ?
Part of what effective leaders do is communicate a vision that gives meaning to policies and inspires others to support these policies ( and those who propose them ) .
It is one of the ways in which leaders help to create shared objectives and energize common action .
Usually , such a vision provides a scenario for the future that is meant to encourage change , though it may also portray the status quo - or the past - as attractive , thereby encouraging resistance to change .
Either way , without a vision , it is difficult to lead others anywhere .
Frederick Smith , CEO of Federal Express , has argued that &quot; the primary task of leadership is to communicate the vision and values of an organization . &quot;
But one must be cautious about visions .
Sometimes leaders think that vision can solve most of their problems , but the wrong vision - or an overly ambitious vision - can do damage .
George H.W. Bush was faulted ( and faulted himself ) for not having what he called &quot; the vision thing . &quot;
When pressed by his staff to speak more boldly and expansively , he replied , &quot; It &apos;s just not me . &quot;
After the shock of the September 2001 terrorist attacks , his son , George W. Bush , developed a far more ambitious vision .
As one former adviser put it , he was &quot; irresistibly drawn to Big Ideas like bringing democracy to the Middle East , Big Ideas that stood in sharp contrast to the prudent small ball played by his father . &quot; Yet the elder Bush turned out to have had the better foreign policy .
Some aspiring leaders think that they must proclaim a vision that overawes their followers .
In practice , however , a successful vision often arises from the needs of the group , which are then formulated and articulated by the leader .
The vision that Martin Luther King , Jr . , expressed in his &quot; I Have a Dream &quot; speech , for example , was deeply rooted not only in America &apos;s professed values of equality and inclusion , but also in African @-@ Americans &quot; experience of subordination and exclusion .
At the same time , the pressure to articulate a vision can get a leader into difficulty .
As one university president put it : &quot; Everyone asks , &quot; What &apos;s your vision ? &quot;
But you offend many people and get into trouble by answering too quickly .
The smart response at the beginning is , &quot; What do you think ? &quot; and then listen before you articulate your vision . &quot;
A successful vision has to be attractive to various circles of followers and stakeholders .
What plays well with one group may not sit well with another .
And , to be sustainable , a successful vision must also be an effective diagnosis of the situation that a group faces .
Leaders must get the question right before proposing answers .
To choose goals and articulate them in a vision , they need not only to solicit input from their followers , but also to understand the context of their choices .
They must be able to assess reality accurately .
The boldness of a vision varies with the type of leadership involved .
Leaders of social movements can call forth larger visions than public officials can .
A movement leader can promote a vision that is miles ahead of his followers , while a prime minister with multiple objectives and responsibilities must maintain a continuous dialogue with the public , which keeps him or her from moving too far ahead of citizens .
After former US Vice President Al Gore lost his bid for the presidency in 2000 , he became a leader of the social movement to combat global climate change , and his style changed from pragmatic to inspirational and prophetic .
Analysts judge a government leader &apos;s vision in terms of whether it creates a sensible balance between realism and risk , and whether it balances objectives with capabilities .
Anyone can produce a wish list , but effective visions combine inspiration with feasibility .
Critics of former British Prime Minister Tony Blair , for example , acknowledged that his ability to articulate a vision was one of his great strengths as a leader , but complained about his lack of attention to detail .
Similarly , two twentieth @-@ century US presidents , Woodrow Wilson and George W. Bush , were good at articulating an ambitious foreign @-@ policy vision , but were poor at refining and reshaping their vision when they encountered implementation challenges .
Both promoted democracy , but both did so in a manner that generated a backlash against democracy promotion .
Of course , prudence is not enough .
Sometimes leaders need to stretch the boundaries of realism to inspire their followers and call forth extra effort , as Winston Churchill did in Great Britain in 1940 .
But , without a degree of prudence based upon comprehension of the context , visions turn from grand to grandiose and undercut the values that they seek to promote .
Like Franklin Roosevelt , who acted very cautiously in trying to persuade American opinion to abandon isolationism in the 1930 &quot; s , Merkel has proceeded cautiously on saving the euro .
She faced public skepticism about using German funds to bail out the Greek economy .
Her coalition was divided on the issue , and her party lost state elections .
If she had acted more boldly , she might have lost even more support , but the steps that she agreed to remained insufficient to reassure markets .
At the end of October , however , she finally articulated a vision of the future of Europe that persuaded the German Bundestag to agree to a package of measures to save the euro .
Whether she waited too long - and whether her vision will prove convincing - will be determined in the coming months .
The Voices Behind Angelina Jolie
NEW YORK - On May 26 , Angelina Jolie &apos;s aunt , Debbie Martin , died of breast cancer at 61 .
Jolie &apos;s mother , Marcheline Bertrand , died at 56 from a related illness , ovarian cancer .
And , two weeks before Martin died , Jolie revealed that she had undergone a preventive double mastectomy after testing positive for a BRCA gene mutation - which is correlated with a woman &apos;s being five times more susceptible to breast cancer and 28 times more susceptible to ovarian cancer .
The test for the BRCA mutation is expensive - roughly $ 3,500 .
In the United States , health insurers cover the cost only if a first @-@ degree relative - for example , a woman &apos;s mother - has had a history of breast or ovarian cancer ; other women must pay out of pocket .
Given the benefits of preventive care , the test has become highly controversial , because its manufacturer , Myriad Genetics , holds a genetic patent that gives it a monopoly - and huge profits - on all testing .
Jolie &apos;s announcement has thrown a spotlight on that issue .
More broadly , she is that rare entertainer / sex symbol who , like Madonna and a few other women , largely dictates her own narrative about the &quot; meaning &quot; of her celebrity .
For Jolie , that means often using her iconic status to advance a positive agenda , whether the issue is Syrian refugees in Jordan or breast @-@ cancer awareness .
Her revelation of her mastectomy - and the evident support of her partner , Brad Pitt - has elicited a rapturous response from popular media , including the tabloids that once damned her as the &quot; other woman &quot; who broke up Pitt &apos;s previous marriage .
There is something about the narrative - a sex symbol sacrificing her fetishized breasts for the sake of her children , with her husband staying by her side - that is deeply reassuring to women in Western culture .
One can be reasonably certain , however , that Jolie &apos;s decision will alter the roles available to her as an actress .
As enthusiastically as the global mass media has received her choice , it is nonetheless extremely difficult in the West for a woman to be portrayed as maternal - let alone physically &quot; flawed &quot; or &quot; impaired &quot; - and also as a fantasy sex object .
But the real importance of Jolie &apos;s story is its context : a wave of women and men , in very different settings around the world , who are insisting on narrating their own meanings for events involving their bodies - events that , like breast cancer , were once shrouded in shame , silence , fear , or blame .
Jolie has refused to treat mastectomy as scary or tragic - or as making her &quot; less of a woman &quot; in any way .
She is thus modeling a refusal to be a woman victim ; by doing so , she is also modeling agency in relation to her own body and its &quot; story . &quot;
Jolie is prominent , but she is hardly alone .
Consider the Brazilian women who are coming forward to talk publicly about having been raped on public buses - &amp; # 160 ; attacks that echo similar assaults in India and Egypt .
Or consider the two young female staffers of New York officials who have publicly pressed their complaints about having been sexually harassed by New York Assemblyman Vito J. Lopez .
Similarly , the men who were sexually abused in the 1970 &quot; s at Horace Mann , a prestigious New York City private school , are refusing to perpetuate the silence and &quot; shame &quot; of their victimization by a circle of pedophiles ( and by the school officials who covered up the abusers &quot; behavior ) .
They have now joined a highly publicized lawsuit against the school , stepping into the light of day under their own names .
Times have surely changed - partly because of people and actions like these .
Twenty @-@ two years ago , when Anita Hill publicly accused then @-@ US Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment , it was she , the alleged victim , who was scrutinized and smeared as &quot; a little bit nutty and a little bit slutty . &quot;
In all these cases , one can see the once @-@ silenced woman - or child of either gender - take charge of the obligation and the right to speak to her or his own situation and recast the public story .
It is they , and they alone , who may assign authoritative meaning to their breasts , their bodies , and the difficult events related to them .
When I began in recent years to insist that the traditional silence and anonymity assigned to rape victims does not protect them , but only perpetuates a Victorian framework in which rapists attack with impunity and victims are asked to carry the &quot; shame , &quot; my argument was met with hostility .
But events are proving me right : nothing changes until everything changes - &amp; # 160 ; that is , until a critical mass of &quot; victims &quot; comes forward under their own names to reject the shame assigned to them for carrying a scary , &quot; mutilating &quot; disease , for having been assaulted by rapists , or for having been abused by pedophiles .
Angelina Jolie puts a famous face on this phenomenon .
But many others are already standing up and proclaiming , under their own names and bylines : &quot; I have a right to say publicly what happened to me , and to define it in my own terms ; it is not my disgrace . &quot;
Argentina &apos;s Sovereign Bondage
WASHINGTON , DC - Sovereign debt has been back in the news recently , this time because of a United States Supreme Court ruling concerning Argentine debt .
As a result of the ruling , a complicated issue is likely to become even more so .
Sovereign debt has been a major feature of the international financial system for centuries .
Kings borrowed , often internationally , to finance wars and other expenditures .
When they couldn &apos;t pay , as sometimes happened , sovereigns defaulted .
Today , sovereigns are more often democratically elected governments , but they still borrow . And they still occasionally find themselves in situations in which their debt has become unsustainable and they need outside help to continue to meet their debt @-@ service obligations .
When private firms ( or subnational governments ) become insolvent , there are normally legal bankruptcy procedures to determine what to do .
Without such procedures , a market economy would be unable to function .
In part , this is because creditors would otherwise stop extending credit and demand repayment at the first sign of trouble .
This is because the first creditors to be paid would receive the full amount owed to them , leaving less for later creditors - and thus creating an incentive for all creditors to rush for the exits even before debt servicing had become impossible .
Moreover , in many cases , the value of the troubled entity &apos;s assets as a going concern is greater than it would be if the assets were sold separately .
In such cases , all creditors would be better off with a debt write @-@ down than with dissolution .
Bankruptcy law thus protects creditors from each other by preventing an outcome that would needlessly harm all of them .
In the case of sovereign debt , however , there is no binding international law that permits bankruptcy .
Though some routine practices have emerged as international capital markets have grown , they remain ad hoc .
Given the uncertainty involved , and that sovereign debtors can repay domestic @-@ currency debt simply by printing money , creditors have typically demanded significantly higher interest rates if bonds are not issued under the law and in the currency of an advanced country - often the United States or the United Kingdom .
When a sovereign decides that its foreign debt is unsustainable , the government and its creditors have had to negotiate among themselves about what to do .
For sovereign bonds held by other sovereigns , the Paris Club of creditor countries has developed procedures for handling the debt .
But when private creditors hold sovereign debt , organizing them creates a new challenge with each episode .
When debt is unsustainable , there are several possible negotiating outcomes .
